The things that have been driving the
market over the last couple of years
have now switched over.
>> It's no [music] longer we're just going
to take at face value the AI trade.
>> We are very heartened by the embracer of
this rotation.
>> We think it's a stock pickers market.
[music] So you got to be selective.
There's plenty of opportunity globally
to diversify.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, it's [music] CPI Friday. As
major tech jitters are consuming
investors worldwide, risk aversion is
sending bond yields sinking to new lows
for 26. Just before we get another read
on price pressure in America, [music] we
begin this hour taking stock of another
wild week on Wall Street. Just 2% from
all-time highs. And yet in some sectors,
it already feels like a bare market.
Wave after wave of anxiety crashing
through industry groups from software to
wealth management, from real estate to
logistics. [music]
Not even a much stronger than expected
jobs report enough to lift the mood.
Investors dropping [music] the banks and
piling into staples, sending Walmart to
fresh record highs as investors look for
somewhere to hide.
>> So how do you hide from an existential
AI threat that as Joe Amato yesterday of
Newberger Bourbon said is
[clears throat] like a heat-seeking
missile looking for its next target? You
buy toilet paper. You buy bananas and
string cheese and wheat thins, you go
out there, you buy a tin foil hat or
maybe just some of the metals that
you've got, which is a reason why
Staples are doing so well right now.
There is a feeling that even if some of
these moves are overdone, we do not
understand the scope and the speed of
the disruption that is happening right
before us.
>> Overdone at 50p on Walmart. Yep. Maybe
overdone. We can talk about that a
little bit later. Let's talk about the
headlines. You've all seen them online
on X. It's February 2020. We were
talking about that yesterday. It's 2008.
Yet this time the software [music]
names, they're the banks. And then you
hear this from the Microsoft AI chief to
the Financial Times. As for white collar
work, quote, [music] most of those tasks
will be fully automated by an AI within
the next 12 to 18 months. Is that a
warning or a sales pitch? You decide. A
warning or a [music] sales pitch. This
from Anthropic yesterday, completing a
deal to raise $30 billion in funding
from investors at a $380 billion
valuation. [music]
>> Look, it could be both. And I think the
problem is is that the market can't
decipher which it is because ultimately
there has been an unproven aspect to
what we have seen from some of these
artificial intelligence and large
language models. If you talk to some
people who have been intimately
connected to some of the crafting of
these models, they do say that the speed
[music] has been dramatic and has been
profound and it will change jobs.
Pinterest cutting a significant swath of
their employees because they are leaning
into AI related tools rather than the
random person who is putting different
images on their page. So you do see this
starting to affect the business models
of a whole host of companies. That's
true. On the other side, will it
eradicate humanity as we know it?
[music] Probably that is more of the
marketing pitch as Enthropic raises $30
billion.
>> There is a great contradiction I think
in the price action of the [music] last
week or so. And here it is that somehow
this tech is going to be so highly
disruptive it will destroy everything
and [music] yet still the capex is a
waste of money. Can you square that
circle? Can you have both at the same
time?
>> No. Because ultimately someone's got to
win. the profits have to be there. The
only way to square that circle is
recession. The only way to square that
circle is if suddenly the whole concept
of a new technology that undermines the
reason for our existence in various jobs
really uh does create some sort of
dramatic draw down in the overall
economic growth that leads to a problem.
If that's the case, well then why are we
even going into this in the first place?
So it does kind of undermine some of
these capex plans. So to your point,
there's got to be a payoff somewhere.
And you're starting to see it a number
of companies that are saying, look, our
efficiency is so much higher. our
profitability is so much higher. That
said, the fly in the ointment as Torson
Slocks has pointed out [music] many
times is that the profitability has been
directed toward a small cohort of tech
dominated stocks. It has not broadened
out yet [music] and that I think is
going to be the key tell earnings for
the rest of this year.
>> This is also super super frustrating for
so many investors right now. Only two
weeks ago was a cyclical rotation.
Global risk appetite is picking up and
[music] you can see that across small
caps across banks. Now look at how
things are playing out. Look at the
sector performance. Banks this week down
6%, staples up by 1 to 2%, Walmart
all-time highs. If you took a step back
and knew nothing about the technology
story, the software disruption, and just
saw that sector performance, that's the
recession trade, bond yields, [music]
and new lows for the year.
>> Yeah, if you take a look at what's going
on, it's both recession trade and a
complete loss of liquidity. This is a
market that feels like it's being jerked
around by funds that are getting blown
out and stopped out and having to
liquidate gold in order to cover their
losses. Why would gold be down in this
kind of trade if this is a recession
trade? Look, this feels like a highly
financialized market that is losing its
liquidity base and right now there is
thin confidence and there's thin trading
and that's what you see in these wild
whip swing. I mean, why is Cisco down
12% because its margins are a minuscule
smidge smaller than people had expected
when they overperform on sales. I mean,
it just does not make sense from any
traditional uh [music] backdrop. And yet
the stock market is 2% away from
[laughter] all-time highs on the S&P
500. [music]
Futures this morning down another
quarter of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Peter Chair of
Academy Securities with AI fears keeping
Wall Street very much on edge. Tom Ford
of Maxim Group with Apple bearing the
brunt of the mega cap sell-off and
Andrew Henhorse of City looking ahead to
a fresh read on inflation. We begin this
hour with stocks on course for
back-to-back weekly losses. Peter Cher
Academy writing the following. We're
transitioning on multiple fronts and
that transition will create some
volatility. Pete joins us now for more.
Pete, good morning. This is quite a
transition. How would you describe this
transition to clients at the moment?
>> You know, I think one at the world order
sort of level, we went from this kind of
rules-based economy where we kind of
understood the rules. China, I think,
was pressing the envelope and we've now
thrown a bunch of Molotov cocktails
there. We are going to wind up, I think,
in potentially another stable system
where everyone does a little bit more on
their own. global trade kind of
diminishes and each country becomes a
little bit more responsible for their
own efforts. But that's a stable state
and we're in a stable state. I think the
transition is very painful. We're going
through that. I think we're seeing some
of the same transitions in AI. How's it
going to be applied? Where's this going
to be used? So, when I'm looking at the
AI story right now, I think what you
want to avoid is companies that don't
rely on people, don't rely on property
plan and equipment and have very high
margins. I think that's where you can
see AI disrupt, right? It's easy to
disrupt those kind of tech sort of
earnings, right? Okay, they're not going
to replace the big tech companies, but
if products come along that are cheaper,
you start feeling that margin pressure.
At the end of it, I think companies that
are actually producing things, goods,
services, real things, tangible, you
know, pulling things out of the ground,
those companies are going to do well.
And that's where you might see margin,
you know, increases. So, we've had this
tale of a tape, right? Where we've had
low margin companies, high margin. I
think that's going to dissipate and
you're going to see the pressure on
those high margin companies as they feel
it. And you're actually going to see
continued rallies in the other sector.
>> In fact, here's the issue. Some people
thought the safety plate was trucking,
the movement of physical goods and then
yesterday happened.
>> You know, one I think Lisa mentioned one
of my favorite points has been this lack
of liquidity. I think we live in this
world of what we've been calling full
liquidity, right? There's all these
algorith sitting there trying to make
markets, but when a trade starts
happening, it accelerates, right? There
is no real depth. There's no one sitting
there really willing to pick up and say,
I'm going to step in the middle of this.
And you create all these stop- losses.
So, the hedge funds all have the
stop-loss trading. CTAs have stop-loss
trading. People see this, too. Now they
can use whether single stock leveraged
ETFs, whether it's some index leveraged
ETFs, they probably own zero day to
expiration options. So I think you kind
of see this additional pull on things.
>> There's a signal though for a karaoke
company turned into somehow a trucking
and logistics company overnight with
less than $2 million of sales uh at the
uh at the quarter ended September 30th
coming out and saying, "Look what we
have." And then suddenly having trucking
stocks plunge 14.5% in response. Isn't
there a tell about what risk appetite is
and how much the fear is out there? The
trigger finger that so many people have.
>> Definitely. I think people are looking
for excuses and it doesn't take much.
And at the same time, I do track some of
this. I'm going to say this and I think
it started with Greenland, right? I
think we've now shifted this world where
the US is not friends with everyone and
every other country kind of realizes
>> you keep going back to geopolitics. I'm
surprised by that. The first question I
had for you, I thought that Pete was
going to be talking about techno
>> completely. I was China and geopolitics.
Why do you keep doing that? Why is that
important? because it is the biggest
driver out there. What we're doing with
China is going to affect our outcomes.
It's I think we're trying to do a lot of
things on rarest critical minerals,
electricity production. China's doing
that and the rest of the world is now
confused, right? I think pre Denmark, I
think, okay, we're all trying to figure
out how to deal with what's going on
with this administration. And I think
that slapping the tariffs on Europe kind
of randomly and again, as far as I can
tell, there was not a single ask ever,
Greenland, do this for us. And Greenland
said no. All of a sudden, it was take
over. And then just this past week, you
look at the, you know, I'm going to
probably title report a bridge too far.
I think the messaging that came across
on the Ambassador Bridge, what we're
doing, and I've had to go over that old
bridge. It's awful. Um, and I I grew up
in Canada. I am Canadian, so take this
all with a grain of salt. But I think
the messaging was just very unclear. It
clearly affects Michigan, which is a
swing state. So I'm wondering if some of
this trade is too like there, we felt we
were on this path. We saw what Trump was
doing. I think, you know, when we took
Maduro out, that was an extremely
successful operation. There a success.
And since then, I think we're losing
faith in this. And you want to invest in
other countries because everyone's doing
their own thing right now.
>> There have been so many people who have
come on the show, and I'm glad that John
pointed this out because I was thinking
the same thing, who have said
geopolitics matter in the long term, but
in the short term, that's not what's
jerking around price action. This isn't
what people are following on a
day-to-day. Yesterday, people were
looking at a karaoke company. They
weren't looking at Greenland. Why is
this structurally different where
suddenly that is going to inject more
volatility at a time where the marginal
flows seem to be on the margins heading
away from the United States? I mean, is
there something about flows that affects
both the liquidity and the market
reaction as a result of this changing
geopolitical order?
>> Yeah, I think two things. One is if
you're in Germany today and you're going
to the store, is a US brand as appealing
as a German brand now as it was 3 months
ago, six months ago, a year ago, right?
I think we rely heavily on selling to
foreign countries, right? If you're an
American company trying to get a meeting
in Europe, is it as easy today as it was
six months ago. I think that's changing,
right? There's been a pullback and I
think it's going to affect our foreign
sales. I think it's going to do a lot of
those things. I think it's affecting a
bit on foreign capital. Again, look at
the banks, right? Maybe that's part of
this, right? If we're decoupling a
little bit, that gives less opportunity
for US banks maybe than we had 6 months
ago or 3 months ago. So I think these
geopolitical ramifications are coming
through and you know there were some
tweets I saw you know maybe coming in
that China and Trump said some no one
even seems to care anymore. I think
we've moved past that.
>> Pete, you think that this is a short on
White House policy.
>> I think there's an element of that. One
thing I keep watching is Bitcoin like it
cannot get up. It's and there's been
nothing but good news about Bitcoin,
right? Everything goes, you know,
there's been some delays but all the
things this administration is doing is
towards Bitcoin and it's still
struggling right around 67,000. And to
me, that's telling me there's something
going on that's affecting people's
investment behavior. Two months ago, six
months ago, a year ago, certainly
everyone would have piled into those
sorts of trades. Are they out of money?
I look at TQQQ, which is the triple
leverage cues, it's not really
experiencing big inflows. Last year when
we were going through liberation day and
you had the buy the dip, massive inflows
into that. ARK, which is kind of like a
disruptive, same thing.
>> So, I see John's face and I see that
face across Wall Street to a lot of
people who are listening to this.
Really, we're talking about Greenland
this morning. we're talking about all of
this geopolitics, when we're talking
about huge CTA funds that are
whips-sawing their money on uh on AI
fears, is there something bigger here?
And this is where I'm wondering if
there's actually a connector because
flows have been a moving away from the
United States or on the margins there's
been a much bigger flow of cash going
into Europe as well as Japan and China.
Is that creating a less liquid backdrop?
I mean, is that kind of what we're
seeing right now, John? I mean, that's
sort of to me maybe the way to connect
these two.
>> Where's the leverage, Pete? Where do you
think it is? You know, I do think it's
in call it the den trade still where
people are still very aggressively
positioned in these leverage, you know,
ETFs. Um there's still decent amount of
size. Every day it seems like there's
five or 10 new single stock leverage
ETFs. You've seen the crypto. I think
there's a lot in gold and silver became
hot things. I think all those things
kind of have to get pushed down and
renormalize, right? Again, it seemed
like every day someone would come on and
say debasement and we should buy gold
because debasement and no one was
explaining where the debasement's
coming. Like where is the debasement?
So, we get ahead of ourselves and I
think everything's kind of pushed by the
stop-loss rating on both directions and
no one complains when we're going up
every day, right? Oh, that's just fine.
That's cuz I was super smart. I made
these great picks and now that's always
the way. But there's the same liquidity
issues. It goes in both directions. It
tends to be slower on the upside and
much more rapid on the downside.
>> Is there a cyclical signal in the sector
price action this week or not?
>> Yeah, I I think we are changing the
dynamic of a the global economy and
people are going to have to look a
little bit differently within that. I
think there are going to be some
concerns about how US companies do in
sales. On the flip side of that though,
I do think all those things we've been
talking about production for security,
whether it's biotech, whether it's
electricity, those things are going to
stay through this administration.
They're going to be developed and
they're getting developed everywhere.
Like I love uranium still for example. I
I don't see a world that doesn't realize
they need nuclear anymore. And that's
happening. You're starting seeing in
Canada again. I think that's the flip
side of some of this too is you even
looked at Canada. All of a sudden
they're trying to actually process and
refine some of their resources. They're
no longer just content to sell them.
Everyone seems to be turning to China
who, you know, it's maybe it's the least
dirty shirt when you look at this. Like
at least China tells you what they're
going to do. They wrote this thing,
China 2025. They're going to control the
world in this, this, this, and this.
They did it. Um, but I think people are
trying to look who do you trade with.
How do you do business relationships
when it seems like every day if you
thought you had a deal that deal could
be changed? And that's becoming, I
think, increasingly difficult. And the
other part of this is we always looked
at tariffs, right? And it's say 30
billion a month. I always argued that it
was going to take time for this to have
a cumulative effect. It's now been 78
months. So now we're at 250 billion. I
also, you know, this will be very
simplistic and anyone who's truly
looking at companies will laugh at me,
but I just as a working assumption,
let's say everyone does two turns of
inventory, right? So if everyone kind of
knew tariffs were coming and it was a
risk, they had six months, maybe nine
months of supply. It's only now that
every company is starting to be fully
engaged in tariffs and people have been
very reluctant certainly early on to
pass these on because it was catching
the, you know, you it would cause you
problems. I think these things are
getting passed on more and more and all
these things are coming home to roost
and it's just there's a very you you
look at delinquencies on everything
across the board. There is some mess.
One positive to say now I feel like I
bet too negative that we've been really
excited about. I think you're seeing a
regrowth in the Great Lakes regions. I
think you're seeing some of these states
that have kind of like fell behind a
little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Access to fresh water is huge. It is
going to be a huge part of any sort of
industrial revolution that we do. We're
doing that. I'm hearing some chatter now
that we might pull back on tariffs on
steel and aluminum, which would make
sense. I think I tweeted at the time we
were doing this, we're tariffing
everything that we need to actually
build out industry, which made no sense.
So maybe we'll have a policy that's a
little bit more coordinated and gets
that growth, but I think it's going to
be those hard physical assets that do
best.
>> We'll let you take a break because you
started interviewing yourself. Pete,
you're going to stick with us. Bit of
cheer of academy. Pete, thank you. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief
is Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, good morning, John.
>> Hi. Venezuela planning to grant more oil
production land to Chevron and Repzol.
Sources are telling us here at Bloomberg
that officials in Karacas [music]
are preparing to award the exploration
and production blocks as soon as this
week. US energy secretary Chris Wright
toured a project operated by Chevron in
Venezuela's oil belt.
The Trump administration is working to
narrow its scope on some metal tariffs.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that change would target levies on steel
and aluminum products that many
companies find difficult to calculate
[music] and that negatively impact
consumers. The report is sending London
aluminum prices lower today.
Anthropic completing that $30 billion
funding deal from investors including
Singapore's [music] sovereign wealth
fund GIC and CO2 management. The deal
values the AI company at $380 billion.
[music] Anthropic also confirming plans
to let employees sell shares in the
company at the same valuation as this
latest round. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> hey Vonyie, [music] thank you. We'll see
you later this hour. Up next on the
program, Seek and Destroy.
AI is is is been sort of like a
heat-seeking missile looking at
different sectors in the equity markets.
You know, [music] first it was software,
then it was private credit, then it's
data service providers,
>> and now it's logistics. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg up next from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Next up, inflation in America. The CPI
report about 2 hours away. [music]
Looking ahead to that at 8:30 Eastern
time. Going into it, the scores look
like this. Equity futures pulling back
by a third of 1% [music] on the S&P 500
on the Nasdaq down by a third of 1%.
Also in the bond market, if I showed you
ISM [music] and payrolls, you'd conclude
things were pretty good right now. But
any counterpoint, any counterpoint
whatsoever, including jobless claims,
[music] test the theory, test the
bullcase. Yields near the lows of the
year. 41134
on tents.
>> People had so many notes overnight about
all of the reasons why the strong
payrolls report wasn't that strong. I
mean, I did not read one saying, "Oh my
goodness, you look under the hood and
it's actually stronger than people
thought." And ultimately, this goes down
to a skepticism about the integrity of
some of the data, not from any kind of
conspiracy theory, but just because of
some of the seasonal changes. and B the
lack of signal at a time where there's
not wide breath of some of this job
creation.
>> The tech anxiety is overwhelming for the
jobs market as well. Under Savannah this
morning, seek and destroy.
The things that have been driving the
market over the last couple of years uh
have have now switched over. AI is is is
[music]
been sort of like a heat-seeking missile
looking at different sectors in the
equity markets. You know, first it was
software, then it was private [music]
credit, then it's data service
providers. AI uh is going to be the most
massive creative destruction process
we've ever seen and it's going to be
happening faster [music] than we've ever
seen it. So, here's the latest this
morning. The S&P logging its third
session of declines at Thursday's close
with AI disruption fears roing equities
causing investors to pull back from mega
tech and software. Bloomberg's Mandep
Singh joins us now for more. Mandy,
welcome to the program and welcome back,
I should say. Mandy, the level of
anxiety around the tech story feels
different. Does it feel new and
different to you?
Well, right now what we are witnessing
is one the obviously there is anxiety
around this buildout of capex but also
what we are seeing with the component
prices especially memory and now I think
people are debating yes the hyperscalers
raised their capex but then how much of
that went to uh memory prices and uh I
think the uh trickle down to the overall
market is everyone sees the anthropic
release in fact the numbers we saw
yesterday, they went from $10 billion
ARR to $14 billion ARR in six weeks.
That kind of growth is phenomenal. So,
enterprises are allocating their dollars
and you know uh whatever model they have
released is really working from that
standpoint. The question that needs to
be asked is what does it mean for the
margins because a lot of these companies
right now are giving away their product
under cost and you know with the
inflation we're talking about the memory
prices I mean you have to ask yourself
yes uh things can change but at what
cost and at what margins and that's
where I think uh the impact is still not
clear there's a lot of noise and
everyone is trying to figure out you
know what really gets impacted because
uh the costs are really going up when it
comes to building this AI
infrastructure.
>> Well, Mandy, let's stay on that and
let's talk about the victims of it. How
does Apple fit in with a big move lower
yesterday?
>> Well, I I think for a company like
Apple, they have stayed away from
investing uh in you know LLMs
altogether. Now that they are partnering
with uh the likes of uh Gemini,
basically what they're saying is we will
get the best model. let the three or
four companies compete. We still have a
hold on the hardware until there is a
new form factor when it comes to using
these LLMs. I think Apple is still in a
great position and I do see you know
this arms race around raising capex but
it's going to impact margins big time
and it's just a matter of time and so
from that standpoint Apple is somewhat
insulated. Apple hammered in yesterday's
session. Mandep, thank you. Down 5%.
Brammo. Worst day for Apple since
liberation day week.
>> Yeah, and it seems like maybe people
were just selling it because they hadn't
been selling it quite as much before. I
mean, the fact that Amazon has been down
16% in the past eight trading sessions
gives you a sense of just the scope of
the carnage. And it goes to the question
that you have and Apple's sort of a
different story because they're more of
a consumer of this, but it goes to story
if they're going to be the big winners,
why aren't they winning, right? I mean,
if they're the ones that are disrupting
everything and that are going to
ultimately uh have to consolidate market
share, well, why aren't people buying
them at least?
>> Pete, which one is it? Can we make our
mind up? We stand the program like this.
Either it's going to cause mass
disruption and destroy lots of things
because it's so good, or we're wasting
money. Can it be both?
>> Uh, you know, one thing I think that's
coming up certainly in our discussions,
electricity, right? Six states now, I
think, have actually put some sort of
restrictions on the data center
buildouts, right? this lack of
electricity, will we actually be able to
achieve all these things, right? Mandep
just talked about the chips and the
underlying cost of the chips going
higher, right? How are we going to get
the electricity on board to do all this?
Where is this all going to come from?
And yes, I see it sometimes. I still
think this is much more of a unwind of
liquidity. People got very comfortable
in treating some of these companies like
cash, right? We aren't from a world
where yeah, money markets are good, but
like apples, like cash. So, I think
people got very, very comfortable with
risk. People were very excited again
coming into this year what was going on
with this administration, where we were
headed. And I think there's a bit of a
pullback like there's a degree of
uncertainty and you start seeing things
come down. People say like, you know
what, I will sell. I will see if I can.
It doesn't have the same feel. You're
not getting that buy the dip mentality,
right? Again, I keep looking at these
ETFs that to me kind of exemplify buy
the dip. They're not getting the big
inflows. You're not seeing retail come
in. And that to me is that's part of the
reason we're getting these on selling
things. And we have not lived in a world
where we've seen these big sell-offs for
a while, right? People were very
comfortable with these trades. They kept
working. So, I think there's a lot of
room to unwind. I I think it's just
really all about positioning. Um, and we
are going to figure this out.
>> Would you be a buyer of this? I mean, is
this a is this a falling knife or does
this look like something that is
actually a really good opportunity?
>> I think we're getting close to
opportunities in some I'm looking at
some of the wealth managers for example,
we're having some conversations around
that. Yes, Robok are going to do certain
amount of things. There is going to be a
lot of handholding people want to do,
right? People are still going to want to
talk to people. I think some of these
things are overdone. To me, again, it's
about valuations and I'm just valuations
positioning until you kind of get this
thing. And it's kind of weird, too. This
has been the US selling. It's not like
we get overnight these huge futures
moves. Generally, we've been higher in
the morning, right? We went much higher
after payrolls. Um, we went higher
yesterday morning. You're sitting there.
I went into a meeting. Um, NASDAQ
futures were up 100 something. Came out
of a meeting. We're down 400 points. So,
this is US selling, right? I think it's
a unwinding of positioning in the US and
people are less comfortable that we have
to go higher.
>> Got 30 seconds left. What's Walmart
doing with a 50 multiple?
>> You know, again, I think it's positioned
the other way. People maybe that was
what people were using short. Again,
>> wild.
>> I think what we have to understand is
people have all these trades, long
shorts and the systematic trades. Maybe
Walmart was ever on short. So, that's
coming back. It is pretty wild. But
again, these are the companies that were
going to do well. I guess the
>> chair of Academy Securities, Pete, thank
you. Appreciate it, buddy. Walmart
reporting again. It's next week.
>> Apologies. But honestly, after the
pandemic, what do people do? They went
out and they bought toilet paper. I mean
ultimately you go out and so you're in
the February 2020 camp.
>> I mean ultimately I mean is this not the
same type of trade? I mean it's the
haven trade of stockpiling of the things
that you need.
>> A 50p [music]
>> you know Clorox wipes.
>> My goodness. Is that what you think this
is? No.
>> Their business model I think has
fundamentally changed. I think that
that's a big piece of it.
>> Okay. Coming up on the program Tom Forte
of Maxim [music] Group as Apple shares
fall by the most since April of last
year. Plus Vonnie has your morning
movers applied material soaring on a
rosy forecast and memory demand. That
stock is up by more than 11% in the
pre-market.
Stocks are down [music] by a third of 1%
on the S&P 500 following a three-day
slide. Three days no gains on the S&P
500, wiping [music] out the gains for
the year so far. the benchmark, the S&P
500 heading towards the worst week of
losses so [music] far this year. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by another 0.4% on
the Russell Small Cap softer by about a
quarter of 1%. In the bond market, check
it out. Bond yields on 10 very close to
the lows of the year. Up a single basis
point this morning, 41134. [music] Think
about it. near the lows of the year even
though we had an upside surprise on
payrolls, [music] a downside surprise on
unemployment and a week ago a really
strong ISM manufacturing and yet here we
are at 41134.
>> Yeah, even uh the 30-year auction that
happened yesterday, the dealers that
normally have to buy if they are uh on
an auction took down the lowest
proportion of this bond sale on record.
In other words, there was so much demand
for 30-year treasuries at a time where
suddenly people are talking about the
existential risk of a deficit. Poof that
all of a sudden that went away. Why is
it because of the fear of some sort of
downturn, recession? Is it because of
Japan? I mean, ultimately, this is a
real question at a time where there do
seem to be some pretty massive market
share.
>> That's the silver lining of the week so
far. The bonds still work. Yields lower
at the long end. 30s down to 474 up a
single basis point on the session.
[music] As we count you down to the
opening of this session, three hours
away from the opening bell, let's get
you some morning movers with Vonyie
Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Yeah, some violent moves this
early on in the session as well. Look at
Applied Materials up 11%. And you would
think that a lot of the good news would
have already been priced in here, right?
Applied materials in the perfect
position [music] right now. It makes the
equipment that makes memory chips and we
know that memory chip stocks have been
on a tear. Well, seemingly the demand is
just unending. It beat on the top and
bottom line and gave [music] a fantastic
forecast. So, Applied Materials is off
to the races this morning. Let's take a
look at another stock that we're [music]
seeing a huge move in and maybe a little
bit less expected. Rivian Automotive,
the maker of EVs. Now, we all thought it
was a hugely [music] bleak outlook for
electric vehicles, right? Not so
seemingly. So, Rivian actually swung
[music] to a profit in the quarter and
it's betting the farm on a midsized SUV
that's going to be all electric for this
year and it upgraded its guidance for
[music] its fullear forecast. So
seemingly EVs are popular still in some
corners of America and the world and
that stock up 20% also got up many
upgrades but one in particular from
Deutsche Bank upgrading its price target
to $23 a share. Not so for DraftKings.
Now this is an online gaming company
obviously and what have we all been
talking about recently prediction
companies right so the prediction
markets are gung-ho online gaming not so
much. Also there's really no moat here.
You can have as many companies in this
space as you [music] want. DraftKings
definitely didn't at all come anywhere
close to meeting revenue or profit
expectations and it also gave a [music]
fairly bleak forecast and that stock is
definitely down 15% and suffering today.
John,
>> hey Vonnie, thanks for the update. More
from Vonnie in about 15 minutes time and
our radar this morning. Wall Street
seeing more than 500 billion in market
value wiped out on Thursday across just
10 mega cap stocks. Fears over AI
disruption taking a major toll on the
tech sector. Elsewhere, the DOJ's top
antitrust official resigning following
pressure from the White House. The move
raising questions about how the
administration may shift its stance on
challenging anti-competitive conduct.
And finally, the Trump administration
working to narrow the scope of its
tariffs on metals. Trade officials
addressing the difficulties companies
are facing since the White House imposed
a 50% levy on foreign steel and
aluminum. This is exactly what Peter was
just talking about that these are some
of the crucial elements that go into a
lot of the manufacturing boom that
they're hoping to reignite. This goes to
a larger point though that a number of
different guests have talked about which
is that if they don't have that many
levers to pull in a year where
affordability is increasingly in focus.
How much will there be a push to reduce
some of the tariffs already in place?
We're already seeing that in the margins
from House Republicans. Do we see that
taking shape in terms of lowering rates
overall? They're feeling the heat and
unemployment's close to four and the
stock market's 2% away from all-time
highs and GDP could be close to three by
the end of the year and they're feeling
the heat. Now, bear that in mind when we
talk about these AI stories and we quote
these AI officials, people from
Microsoft talking about wiping out white
collar jobs in the next 18 months, if
they're feeling the heat now, what do
you think the Washington response is
going to be if we actually see
technology that starts wiping out white
collar jobs across this country? This is
the reason why I thought that the
Anthropic press release yesterday was so
interesting. Anthropic is trying to get
ahead of it and saying, "Yes, we need
you to regulate us more and by the way,
we want to come into Washington and help
you do that because we're going to help
you craft that so that we can get ahead
of it." This is the question. What is
that response, right? What is the policy
lever that Washington DC is going to do?
Is it going to simply say you can't have
electricity? Is it going to simply say
you don't have permitting to build out?
Or is it going to say, "Hey, Kevin
Worsh, lower rates. Go drop them to zero
and try to ignite some sort of growth."
I mean, they're kind of in a bind here,
right? Because the United States has
always been a bastion of creative
destruction. That has been the power,
the engine of this economy. So, how do
you deal with that creative destruction
if it is potentially the nuclear bomb of
creative destruction
>> and moving this quickly? And it's the
speed of which is moving that is of
concern. That post that everyone's
talking about, the viral post that we
mentioned yesterday, the start of it,
that it's February 2020. Let's just
think that through just a little bit
more. I understand why people are
concerned and anxious about that. The
technological development is real and
it's happening much quicker than people
thought it would even 12 months ago. But
everyone's worried about March. Did
everybody forget April and the following
12 months? Governments around the world
threw everything at this pandemic to
make sure that unemployment didn't climb
because they knew what it meant for
their jobs. But just think that through.
Never mind February 2020 and being
obsessed about March. Think through
April. Think about the government
response to the pandemic to try and
insulate the labor market from the
economic shock. That's what you've got
to bear in mind. How Washington will
respond if see some of these fearful
forecasts actually start to materialize.
>> It's a great point. It's a really
important point. It's the reason why
people's eyes are turning to Washington
as they see some of these developments
take place. I'm just not clear on the
policy prescription in response to this
type of creative destruction when
Washington DC doesn't seem to understand
it as quickly as it it's moving and that
a lot of people don't have their heads
around exactly how developed some of
this technology is and what its
potential is and when there is this arms
race globally right China is not going
to regulate into obsolescence they're
going to invite it more because they
want to dominate so what is the policy
prescription if it's not throwing cash
and dropping rates to zero that seems to
be where President Trump is trying to
push it with Kevin Worsh but is that
really going to change the dynamic in
any material way?
>> China is an interesting example because
the labor market and unemployment in
China is existential risk to the
communist party. Literally, the whole
thing gets shut down if people start to
come out with pitchforks because they
can't make a living. So, how governments
respond to this? The same thing will
apply to China, too. They can't just sit
idly by and let all these companies make
tons of money hand over hand, fist over
fist, and then just watch people lose
their jobs. That's not going to that's
not going to work out for any of these
governments.
>> I would agree with that. you're seeing
right now in China the unemployment the
youth unemployment rate at 20 some odd
percent and they're having to crack down
on a number of descent that is
percolating to this to the to the
surface that's already somewhat there I
will say going forward again though how
are they going to address this is it
going to be training programs so that we
can all become gardeners are we all
going to learn how to refine metal I
mean there are certain jobs are we going
to become plumbers because evidently
plumbing pays a lot if you've ever had
to fix anything in your house so there's
a lot of potential jobs that do still
have a place but they haven't been the
ones that have been most popular over
the past couple of decades.
>> Let's keep it on tech. The NASDAQ 100,
as you all know, on track for its third
straight weekly loss. Tom Ford of Maxim
Group covers Apple and Amazon with a buy
rating on both. Tom joins us now for
more. Tom, the anxiety is overwhelming
this week in the tech sector. I don't
even know if it's reached main street
just yet. But on Wall Street, the fear
is sky-high in two names that you cover,
Apple, Amazon. Let's start with Amazon.
Lisa mentioned this 8day run of declines
18% lower on Amazon. What has made that
stock fall out of bed over the last
week?
>> Yeah. So, when you think about the
weakness in Amazon, I think it's
entirely related to the $200 billion
capex uh guidance by the company. And if
you look historically without
downplaying the significance of a $200
billion capex number for Amazon, but
Amazon has a track record of ramping
investing uh when necessary to take
advantage of opportunities. And I do
think that netnet Amazon can take
advantage or capitalize in AI in ways
other mega caps can't. They have 1.5
sorry 1.5 million employees many at the
large fulfillment center level to the
extent that they roll out robotics add
automation they can have um greater
efficiency. Now you've been talking a
lot about AI displacing jobs. So I think
that if you do the math equation for
Amazon, it would be to the extent that
automation reduced the headcount at the
warehouse level. But at the same time,
you have to think about the new jobs
that automation would create to the
extent that someone has to make the
robots, service the robots, things of
that nature. So yes, I'm concerned about
job loss from artificial intelligence,
but I think there are going to be it's
going to be an offset of job loss, but
also some job gains.
You know, Tom, John opened the show
asking about this conflict that I think
really is the conflict. either this
capex that all of these big tech
companies are spending is not worth it
and ultimately is going to backfire on
them for becoming asset heavy and not as
profit heavy or people are just totally
mispricing the story and and the
disruption is is is actually yes
significant on the other side but is
going to benefit these companies in a
significant way which is it
>> well okay for Amazon again I'm of the
belief that it'll be worthwhile And I
think what's interesting as a student
of, you know, having started covering
the internet in the late '90s, I
remember the build out of dark fiber and
things of that nature. So I worry that
we're going to have this, you know,
ghost data centers in the future and
things of that nature. But the good
news, I think, for Amazon and for other
mega cap tech companies that are ramping
their capex is that presumably if they
don't see the returns, they can scale
back the numbers. It isn't that Amazon's
Amazon spending 200 billion in one day.
So if you look at Amazon again, they've
scaled back some of their leasing
commitments when they determined that
they didn't need as much fulfillment
center square footage because there
wasn't the demand. So I do think that as
it pertains to Amazon, if they're not
seeing the positive performance that
they're expecting, greater efficiency at
the warehouse level, greater efficiency
also at the software engineering level,
uh better sales from e-commerce, things
of that nature, it's not like they can't
stop the spending. They can they can
turn it off.
>> Tom, is the tech really that good? Is
the AI really that good to disrupt all
of these potential industries? is is the
sort of heat-seeking missile that Joe
Amato of Newberger Burman was talking
about is it truly that in terms of its
effect efficacy
>> so you're asking me so today we'll call
it you know day before Valentine's Day
2026 is the technology that good uh to
the extent that I have you know spent a
lot of time with Alexa and Siri as an
example of you know AI and things of
that nature the answer is absolutely not
the question is in the future will it be
that good and remains to be seen. But I
would say, Lisa, I would say today I'm
convinced the tech is not that good. But
that doesn't mean directionally we're
not heading to a point where it'll be
much better than it is today. And I
think that's, you know, very much
possible.
>> Tom, I'm not going to ask you if you're
spending Valentine's with Alexa and
Siri. I'm not going to ask that
question.
>> You just did.
>> You basically asked it yourself.
[laughter]
>> Taking my wife to dinner, but thanks
Jonathan for for worrying about
>> otherwise you could have joined us. I
was concerned. So I'm going to follow up
on Apple. I want to talk about Apple
very quickly. 5% move. Is this the
threat of a margin squeeze from memory
or is it about falling behind with AI?
What's the move about?
>> Has to be the margin squeeze on memory.
Uh so Jonathan, I was thinking back to
last year being on your show and
wondering if we had a super cycle for AI
for a uh Apple. 20% growth in iPhones in
the December quarter would make us think
yes, but they absolutely they're nowhere
with AI. So, I think that the 5% move is
concerned on memory. Uh, Apple
historically does very well when they
have a product uh selling as well as the
iPhone 17 and improving the margin over
time. They could take price. Managing
supply chain is Tim Cook's Forte. So, so
I'm not worried about memory maybe as
much as the market is right now.
>> Hey Tom, I'm not worried about you. It's
good to catch up. Tom Ford of Maxim
Group. Tom, thank you. And a happy
Valentine's Day to Mrs. Ford this
weekend as well.
>> I wonder if anyone's actually doing
that. Hey, Chachi PT, will you be my
Valentine?
>> Brahmo kind of happening.
>> I know, I know, but maybe they just
provide, you know, really good feedback.
>> I saw a headline about a restaurant
opening up where you could take your AI
partner recently. Did you read that
headline?
>> You know, when you see those headlines,
you don't actually click the stories and
read them because it just I just No,
>> you can't you can't get that. No, I
don't. No,
>> if maybe if it makes them happy, you
know? I mean, it's sort of like a for
it. It's like a furry, but you know,
>> to get involved in other people's
business, you know, do what makes you
happy.
>> What do you They should come up with a
new name. Not furry, but like body.
>> I'll let you take some time to think
about it. Okay, let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. With
your Bloomberg brief is Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. President Trump
says he can see negotiations with Iran
stretching for as long as a month as he
seeks a diplomatic agreement that would
roll [music] back's nuclear ambitions.
The president also saying it will be
quote very traumatic for Iran if it
fails to reach an agreement. [music]
Trump's comments coming a day after he
met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu at the White House.
Global ports operator DP World is naming
a new CEO and chairman. The announcement
coming after emails released by the US
Justice Department [music] showed Sultan
Ahmed bin Salam swapped emails with
convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.
[music]
Sulam was one of Dubai's most powerful
executives and was in touch with Epstein
for more than a decade after Epstein
[music] was first jailed in 2008.
L'Oreal share is trading lower in French
trading. The beauty group posting
disappointing [music]
sales growth in the fourth quarter.
Results at its Lux division which
includes Lancome and Ean Lauron were
hurt by a persistent slowdown in the
travel retail business in Asia. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Hey, thank you. Up next on the program,
it's CPI Friday.
>> There is a potential [music]
disinflationary trend that that's in
place. I think shelter will will be key
to that. The Fed has missed their
inflation target by a wide margin for
now 5 years. I think it makes a lot of
sense to them be cautious about [music]
adjusting policy lower.
>> Andrew Honhorse of City joins us next
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Three days no gains. It could become day
four. Equities are soft by a third of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100. We're
lower as well by a third [music] of 1%
also. It's a reset for 2026. A reset
because we're back to zero again. in
fact negative on the year now in the S&P
500 wiping out the gains for 2026 so far
under Savannah this morning our next
stop it's CPI Friday
there is a potential [music]
disinflationary trend that that's in
place I think shelter will will be key
to that it's pretty clear from their
dual mandate objectives [music] they're
missing very clearly on one but the
labor market looks much closer on the
other the Fed has missed their inflation
target by a wide margin for now 5
[music] years and the labor market is
very close to what they think full
employment is at this point in time uh
with that context [music] I think makes
a lot of sense to then be cautious about
adjusting policy lower.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Traders turning to the next inflation
read at 8:30 Eastern time following a
blowout jobs report which pushed out Fed
rate cut bets. Andrew Hullorse of City
writing in our base case we have the Fed
cutting interest rates 75 basis points
this year across April, July and
September. Andrew joins us now for more.
Andrew, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Just remind everybody what your jobs
guess was.
>> We were just within 5K of the actual
number. Um, but you know, I was talking
to Lisa about this before. The question
is, are you getting the number right?
Are you getting what's going on in the
underlying economy right? And we were
close to the right number. It was a
strong jobs report in that sense, but
like you were talking about earlier,
there's a lot to look at here and think
that really the labor market's not that
strong.
>> So, you think the number this week
overstates the strength of the economy?
>> Absolutely. And I think we've seen that
consistently at this time of year over
the last couple years. Um, this is, you
know, residual seasonality. I think we
talk about it every time I'm on now. um
which is just such an important feature
of the data. Now the reason we had that
strong forecast for payrolls or that
high forecast for payrolls I should say
is because of that residual seasonal
pattern. Every January you get a strong
number and then we'll get numbers over
the remainder of the year that aren't
going to look as strong.
>> Andrew, this was no victory lap. Come
on. You had a you had [laughter] almost
the perfect numbers. You were supposed
to come in here and say yes, we nailed
it. Our team absolutely crushed it. We
had 135. It came in at 130.
>> They failed by 5K.
>> I mean [laughter] they instead said
Exactly. We failed by 5K and it's hard
to understand exactly all of the details
and what this actually means. Look, how
much are you focusing on the breadth of
the jobs gains as a real indicator of
how fragile some of these uh numbers
actually look?
>> Yeah, that's another way to look at it.
I mean, again, you just start pulling
this report apart and there's more and
more reasons to think that it's really
not that strong. Almost all of the job
gains that we're getting are in
healthcare, education, and leisure
leisure and hospitality with healthcare
being the biggest of of those three
categories. Um, so this is very very
focused job growth. What you want to see
in a healthy economy is job growth
across the economy. And then remember,
we think that these numbers are being
overstated by something like 60,000 per
month. You look at a moving average and
you adjust down by that 60,000 a month.
We're close to zero net job growth,
which maybe that is consistent with
labor supply that's slowed down a whole
lot, but it's still not a healthy thing
for an economy.
>> We'll get into inflation, but it's
existential Friday and we're worried
about our jobs. So, I'm just wondering
if you get a sense under the hood that
there are certain sectors that are
losing jobs as a result of AI or
uncertainty about exactly how this would
play out for companies that are holding
back on hiring.
>> Yeah, it's it's hard to see that in the
data. You would look at certain sectors
and say, are we really losing jobs in a
big way in the sectors that we would
expect to be affected more by AI? And
instead, what we see, which is
interesting, I think, and maybe telling
us something about what's going on, is
just a general weakness in hiring firms
that are reluctant to hire. And I do
think that has something to do with AI.
It probably has something to do with the
overall macro economy. But you have a
lot of CEOs out there, a lot of CFOs out
there. And I think they're thinking,
what if we do get these productivity
improvements from AI? Is this the right
time to be hiring? If I'm losing some
employees now, should I be replacing
those roles or maybe I'm just going to
wait and see in 18 months from now, will
I be unhappy that I increase my payroll?
So this reluctance to hiring to hire, I
do think it has something to do with AI.
>> When do you expect to see more weakness
in headline payrolls? I think that we'll
see that really as we get into the
spring and summer. This seasonal
pattern, you hire a bunch of people into
the holiday season, then you lay those
people off in January, then you start
hiring again as you get into the spring
and summer. And when that hiring is
supposed to pick up, that's what we've
seen over the last couple years. You
seasonally adjust those numbers downward
and we get weaker readings.
>> Is that coming with hotter or softer
inflation in the months ahead?
>> I think that it will be coming with
softer inflation. That is critical. Um,
>> you sound hesitant. Well, I I'm I'm
hesitant because we've seen inflation
that especially at the beginning of the
year. Again, I'm going back to residual
seasonality. Again, January and February
inflation prints have just been strong
the past couple years. We think it's
going to be a softer reading today, but
there there's a lot of uncertainty
around what exactly the reading is going
to be. Um I do think by the time we get
to the end of this year, we'll have a
pretty clear slower inflation trend. I
think we have actually established that
and the underlying data in the details.
Um but are we going to see that today?
Are we going to see that in the next
couple months? It may be a few months
before we see that.
>> What kind of number would we have to see
for the Fed to be justified in cutting
rates as a result of disinflation, not
because of labor weakness?
>> Yeah, I I think if we're reasonably
comfortable that core inflation is
running down more at 2.5%, which on a
year-on-year basis we're not that far
off of, um, I think that's a pretty
comfortable place to be reducing policy
rates. I and I think many others would
not get into this game which I think we
were in before the pandemic of looking
at every tenth of a percentage point on
inflation because we're talking about
how the numbers are imprecise and there
are issues in terms of just measuring
inflation. So if you're at 2 and a half%
you're basically at your target that you
know you're you're basically 2%. Um so
if if we're comfortable that that's
where we're running in an underlying
sense I think that you can be reducing
policy rates. What chair Powell is
saying now and I would agree is that the
elevation in inflation is all due to
goods inflation right now. So what you
really need to see is that goods
inflation slow. It should because
tariffs were almost a year ago now um
came into effect you know 6 months ago.
Um and we should be seeing that kind of
upward pressure on goods inflation
fading. But that's a key question.
>> Is the disinflation coming from a
cyclical softening or is it coming from
AI? And this is important in terms of
the read through for risk assets.
>> I I think it's coming from a cyclical
softening and I think that's really
consistent with what we're seeing in the
labor market. You are seeing job
openings that have come down. You're
seeing the employment cost index, right?
So this is all the other employment
statistics we look at outside of that
monthly jobs report which always gets
all the attention. Employment cost
index. This is our best measure of the
costs of labor. Um and that has been
slowing and it slowed again in the
numbers that came out earlier this week.
I think that should be really reassuring
for Fed officials because that that's
the key input for services inflation and
you're just not seeing inflationary
pressure there.
>> Does it feel like midFebruary to you?
Feels like the middle of the year.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, it feels
like we've been [laughter]
clients feel the same way right now. Are
they just exhausted and overwhelmed by
all of this?
>> Yeah, I and I mean I I think that's
maybe part of, you know, why we're
starting to see some volatility in
markets because people are starting to
think about, you know, what does this
really mean for the longer term?
>> True. Andrew, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Andrew Honhost of City
about two hours time we'll catch up with
Jonathan Golop of Seapport Global. He's
got a counterpoint to all the gloom. So
looking forward to that. He said it's
become quite invogue to talk about how
punk the economy is, weak growth,
deficit spending, all of that. But from
the markets perspective, from his
perspective, incoming data looks good.
Dare we say pretty darn good. He likes
financials and discretionary heading
into the midterms.
>> And you hear this from other equity
analysts as well. I just think about
Steve Rashuda yesterday, an economist,
not necessarily an equity investor per
se. However, he came out and he was
like, "Stop parsing the data. The data
looked good. Look at it. It looks good.
Bye." I mean, essentially, it's that
simple. So, there are more people on his
on his train.
>> He'll be happier over the long weekend,
I'm sure. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxon Woods, Bloomberg's Mandep Singh,
and Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management. The second hour [music] of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
Inflation's not sticky. It's stuck.
because the Federal Reserve has to wake
up and smell the roses that inflation is
stuck at these levels.
>> That's why we say get used to three-ish
inflation that's here to stay
>> because you look ahead there is a
potential [music] disinflationary trend
that's in place.
>> Rate cuts if and when they come will be
based on inflation.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second era of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Three
days no gains. The losses [music]
continue. We're down by 0.2% on the S&P.
On the NASDAQ, we're down by.17. A
little bit of weakness as well in the
small caps. In the bond market, very,
very close to [music] the lows of the
year on a 10-year bond yield this
morning. Up a single basis point to
41077 going into this 90 minutes away.
The last big data point before the
weekend. We can't [music] wait. You all
need it. Inflation just around the
corner.
>> You all need it. We all need it. I mean,
this has been a week of all weeks. We're
looking for [music] an inflation rate at
a time where there's a growing chorus of
people who are saying to the Federal
Reserve, look, you don't have to rely on
the labor market falling out of bed. All
you have to see is disinflation and then
you can cut rates. So, do your thing.
And so, ultimately, JP Morgan sees a
0.4% or higher leading to a sell-off
because that sort of undermines that
argument. But if you see zero less than
0.3%, you could see a significant rally
because suddenly it's back on the Fed
and the put returns
>> and then we can all relax. Is it as
simple as that? I hope it is. How many
different narratives have we had so far?
It is the middle of February. I keep
checking the date. [music] Sell America,
debasement trade, one big rotation, the
rest of the world, international, Japan,
[music] South Korea, and now all of a
sudden is sell everything because AI is
coming for you.
>> Kristen bitterly yesterday uh was on of
City Wealth. It feels like 3 months ago
that she was on. So I'm wondering
whether it was actually yesterday and
she said that about in her survey 60%
were relatively bullish, [music]
20% were somewhat more pessimistic about
AI and 20% were confused. I think that
that section that 20% grew to about 80%.
I was just going to say that because
ultimately it's just mind spinning
[music] to try to figure out which
squirrel to chase at a point when it's
moving and moving violently. I'm just
looking right now. 30% of the S&P 500
members are at 8week highs. 15% are at
8we lows. This is dispersion upon
dispersion. but without themes that you
can really follow in any kind of way.
>> Devon Ryan of Citizens yesterday on this
program called it the AI vigilantes.
[music]
It kind of feels that way. And when you
identify some of these stories like the
company that was a karaoke company but
is now a logistics firm.
>> Love the story
>> and it's sinking the whole sector. Where
are these stories coming from? Who's
finding them? How [music] are they being
marketed? All these headlines we've been
reading all this week, who's in control
of [music] the narrative right now?
Because it feels like things are a
little bit too wild. Will that short
seller please stand up? Because right
now it feels like people are looking for
a story to kind of lob into the fire and
see what explodes. I love what Deutsche
Bank Jim Reed had to say. [music] I've
seen some shocking karaoke performances
in my time, but this perhaps tops them
all given the fact that you have this
tiny company with no proven track record
that is sinking billions of dollars of
market valuation taking it from the
overall index. You're [music] right.
It's correct to be skeptical, but the
scope of these moves in a market that
typically is equally skeptical
highlights just how much [music] of a
fear factor there is. The fact that
there's so much selling that follows one
little grenade that's lobbed into a
massive field [music] highlights just
how jittery and volatile people are
feeling right now.
>> The progress is real, the development is
real, the speed is real, all of that is
real. And the issue that a lot of people
in these stocks on the long side have
[music] right now is something we've
discussed over the past week. from
software to wealth management firm to
logistic firms, take your pick, real
estate, it's difficult to prove the
[music] negative. It's hard right now to
sit here and say these things won't
happen. So, people are just selling now
and they're going to sit back and ask
questions later. And that's the problem.
That's going to be the overhang now for
the months to come. It's got to be a
show me [music] market. These guys will
have to put up fantastic earnings
consistently and show that they are
ahead with regards to the technology.
[music]
>> Yeah. And the difficulty right now is
that that narrative, which is very
logical, is getting muddied by a lot of
forceelling and by CTAs that are getting
stopped out of positions. And I look at
gold. Why was gold selling off so
significantly? Somebody needed to raise
raise a lot of cash in mass and they've
been selling gold in order to finance
some of their short positions that they
need to cover. So there's a
financialization and a lack of liquidity
overlay [music]
that exacerbates some of these moves and
makes them feel more painful when it
might be a margin squeeze. [music] It
might not be necessarily an existential
threat to the entire business model.
>> And that's a new dynamic.
>> Yeah,
>> that's a new dynamic. So picking out the
one karaoke firm and saying that it did
all of this, it's a little bit too cute.
It's a little bit too cute,
>> but it's a great story.
>> Fantastic story. I'm enjoying the story,
too.
>> You can't make this stuff up. I mean,
honestly, how does this how does this
come out of Hollywood? This is just too
rich.
>> It's kind of ridiculous [music] because
maybe it is ridiculous. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 negative by 210 of 1%
this morning. Coming up this hour, Sarah
Hun of Alpine Sax and Words as Wall
Street tries to stop the [music]
bleeding. Bloomberg's Marie is going to
join us as Venezuela ramps up oil
production. Looking forward to catching
up with AMH in just a moment. Plus
Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management as investors eye a fresh read
on inflation. We begin this hour with
stocks trying to find a firmer footing
following a broad tech selloff. Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods writing,
"Inves investors are looking to move out
of higher valuation stocks as the AI
juggernaut comes for a new vertical
every single day." Sarah joins us now
for more. So Sarah, they're seeking out
another high valuation stock is Walmart
at a 50p. Well, so it's interesting
because I was listening to you guys talk
about Walmart earlier and I think I mean
if you if you go back and look at Costco
and you look at those giant moes where
people are like no matter what happens
they're going to go there. There's a
reason that people feel more comfortable
in that space right now even if it is a
high valuation space because it seems a
little bit harder to disintermediate
buying stuff with AI and it also seems
like people are looking for the places
that are least vulnerable. Whether or
not that's the case, we don't know yet,
but it's certainly been driving a lot of
the movement. We did this 12 months ago
with Deep Seek. Is this different or
another head fake?
>> It's really hard to say. And I think the
biggest problem is that we all talk
about it. And as we're all trying to
learn exactly how things work, it's hard
to to your point disprove a negative. If
I say that this is going to come for you
no matter what, it's difficult to say
no, it isn't and this is why. And I
think that this is the biggest problem
is really trying to understand exactly
what the technology is displacing
because are people going to be
comfortable listening to only AI and not
talking to any people which is the
direction that right now that you know
that the market is going.
>> So what are you more comfortable in
highly priced consumer staples right now
or software names that have been
absolutely hammered over the last week?
If you had additional capital to deploy
at the moment where would you put it?
I'm looking more or we're looking more
collectively for the combination of
you've got some real world assets on the
ground and you're a a company that makes
things. You've got good cash flow. It's
difficult to think about a pipeline for
example or an energy company being
disintermediated by AI. I think one of
the biggest challenges is going to be
that electricity that we've all been
talking about. There was a story this
morning that Germany was basically put
the kaibos on a data center going in
someplace because they didn't have the
power resources. We talk about that in
this country because electricity prices
have gone up. We're looking now at what
the software can do and then saying
maybe on the other hand, can we build it
as fast as we were going to build it? Do
we need to build it as fast as we were
going to build it? Because that's
another question. Is the speed and the
technology going to catch up with the
chips? I don't think we know the
answers. And it's that unknowing that
makes people much quicker to pull the
trigger to say let's step back and see
what happens.
>> John made the point earlier that uh in
this viral post, it was February 2020
and and John was talking about how
everyone's looking past the fact that in
April 2020 the bazooka came out. I'm
just wondering how much you're starting
to anticipate what kind of policy
response there is going to be. Whether
it's restricting some of the electricity
uh demands by some of the AI companies,
whether it's throwing money at the cause
to try to train people to get them into
jobs.
>> I think that that is also something you
don't know what the response is until
you know what's actually happening.
Right now, we have an enormous amount of
anticipation of what may happen. You can
see certainly that things like on the
travel side, websites are having a hard
time. Hotels valuations are going up.
Why? Because they own the hotels and you
can't take that out of the picture. If
I'm going to go stay in a hotel, I have
to actually be in a physical plant. So
there is a bifurcation of what people
are looking at. Is this a digital asset?
Is it a real asset? Who controls what
and how? I mean, even some of the stocks
that got sold off yesterday. Some of the
automation stocks, there's a software
component to that, but it's also into
the entire automation product. You can't
take those two things apart just because
I can write an app to do anything. So, I
think that there is very much of a
knee-jerk reaction to we just don't
understand how this is and things are
expensive and I think that that's really
been fueling a lot of the last three
days.
>> Is the US market just too confusing? Are
people just like, "All right, I'm going
to go to China where it's a lot clearer
and that maybe valuations are a lot
lower. I'm going to go to Europe because
it's maybe a lot clearer and they've
been so beaten up that can't lose too
much."
>> Well, if you think about it just from a
purely thematic standpoint, one of the
big reasons that the US market had
outperformed Europe for so long was the
technology piece. If the technology
piece is what people are concerned
about, you go to markets where that's
less of an issue. It's not not an issue
at all in Europe, but the valuations
were lower and you don't have quite as
much movement on the idea that I can get
rid of entire sectors with AI the way
we've been talking about it in the US.
So, I think that there's a difference
there and it's hard to it's hard to say
that you shouldn't go looking in other
places when you've got valuations that
are cheaper and you have less of a
market that is being perceived as at
risk as you see right So the regulatory
burden in Europe becomes a benefit.
>> Is that how we're framing this?
>> That's what it ends up being like what I
just talked about. I'm thinking exactly
where is that going? And it's because
you can't do as many things andor people
are saying no you can't do this right
now. I just think that the US market has
been a technologyheavy market and has
been a huge benefit. And right now the
big technology companies that are
spending a lot of money are under are
under pressure because they're spending
so much money and people are looking at
that. And the ones that are in the
ancillary atmosphere, people are worried
that they won't have a place.
>> Can you identify any financial risk
accumulating at the moment?
>> Well, I think that the moves being so
big is telling you that there was, you
know, you look at the margin levels of
margin debt, you look at the leverage in
the system, and you have to think that
as the market has wound up like this
using leverage, it also can wind down a
little bit when that leverage has to
come off. And to your point about margin
calls and everything else, there has to
be some carnage under the surface
because there's so much movement in both
individual names and in sectors.
>> Do you think that treasuries are the
haven now of choice? Not necessarily
gold, but treasuries because they hadn't
served that way maybe over the past six
months and increasingly could be
susceptible to some sort of policy
response.
>> Well, I think you're seeing that in the
short end of the curve, but I'm not sure
you're seeing that so much in the long
end of the curve. ing what what the US
wants arguably is lower rates on the
long end so that you get better mortgage
rates and and some relief there. It's
the short end that's been coming down on
the back of some of this and even the
move higher after the labor picture did
not really last very long. So I think
it's I think people are using it but I
would say more short-term than long
term.
>> So you wouldn't be buying so you
wouldn't be buying the long end of the
Treasury curve right now as a haven
asset the way that at least the
narrative seems to be painting it. It's
working
>> well and and it very well could. I mean,
that's the other thing is that if you
get a slowdown, it could work for
reasons you don't want it to work,
right? Because longer term rates might
come down under those circumstances and
therefore then you would want to be in
the longer end of the curve. I just
think that there's so much uncertainty,
it's difficult to say that's a place
where you feel comfortable right now.
>> Sarah, it's good to see you. You're
going to stick with us. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods with 30-year bond
yields this morning just about unchanged
at 473. Let's get you an update on
stories and news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The federal
government heading for its second
partial shutdown in as many months. The
Senate going into a week-long recess
without reaching a deal for new limits
on immigration enforcement. [music]
Under a shutdown, most DHS employees
will be expected to work without pay.
Goldman's top lawyer Kathy Rumler is
leaving the firm following the release
of documents showing her connection to
convicted [music] sex offender Jeffrey
Epstein. Rumler was hired by Goldman in
2020 and disclosed to the firm's
leadership that she had previously dealt
with Epstein. [music] In a statement,
CEO David Solomon said he respects
Rumller's decision to retire.
NASA launching four astronauts to the
International Space Station, replacing a
crew that was evacuated early due to
that medical issue. The crew's mission
is aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket. The
astronauts should arrive at the ISS by
tomorrow [music] afternoon. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John. Hey Vonnie,
thank you. Appreciate the update. More
from Vonyie a little bit later. Up next
on the program, AI anxiety.
>> It's no longer [music]
we're just going to take at face value
the AI trade and everything's going to
grind higher. People are starting to ask
the question what is going to be
disrupted and then also when are they
going to start to see the productivity
gains?
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Bloomberg's Mandep Singh plus more
from Sarah Hunt from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Stocks are down once again. Could be a
fourth consecutive day of losses. Stay
side. Equity futures down by a third of
1% on the NASDAQ down by a third of 1%.
Also, as for the sectors, Staples
heading towards a sixth week of gains.
[music] IGV the software ETF getting
kicked around. That's heading towards a
fifth week of losses. [music] And that's
really the story of the moment in the
bond market. 10 year yields near the
lows of the year. 410 410 even with a
blowout jobs report earlier on this
week. And [music] a lot of doubt around
that so-called blowout jobs report
earlier this week. Yeah, even with all
the debt sales this week coming from
both big tech and the US government,
still yields are down significantly,
which raises this issue. Is it because
that people are expecting that Kevin
Worsh one way or another is going to get
those yields down? Is it because of
Japan and the fact that people seem to
be less worried about some sort of
fiscal overhang or is it that bonds are
acting as a haven again? And that I
think is what a lot of people are
leaning into for hope given [music] the
fact that gold is suddenly acting like
Bitcoin.
>> So that's treasuries and yes, precious
metals too. The interesting thing for me
is corporate debt. We started the week
with that massive alphabet issue and it
was sucked up, eaten up. The [music]
draw down was fantastic, fantastic
demand that we saw come not just from
corporate America or rather investment
America but also from the Europeans as
[music] well. So the credit market has
decided I'm getting paid by some of
these companies and the stock market's
worried about existential risk and there
is a bit of a difference there at
[music] the moment.
>> This goes to the psychology right now of
markets. You can't price uncertainty.
And this level of uncertainty is getting
increasingly difficult for people
[music] to price. And you can see that
the idea that you can get a coupon
payment is a level of concrete
understandability that I think a lot of
people like, which is a reason why
there's a focus on income. At least you
know what you're getting. And that's the
reason why you're not even seeing
spreads widen that much. Even as you see
specific sectors completely fall out of
>> in the stock market, we don't know
what's going to happen in 5 minutes in
the bond [music] market. There's
confidence 100 years out. Apparently,
>> coupon payments. What a week it's been
under Savannah this morning. AI anxiety.
It's
>> no longer we're just going to take at
face value the AI trade and everything's
going to grind higher. If you don't see
the ROI, investors are getting less
patient and I think that's healthy.
People are starting to ask the question,
what is going to be disrupted? And then
also when are they going to start to see
the productivity gains? It's not a
bubble. It's really kind of the infancy
stages of this and that's going to then
benefit a number of other industries.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Trucking and logistics companies
becoming the latest targets of AI
disruption fears. The industry joining
the ranks of software, wealth management
and real estate. Blindos Mandep Singh
joins us now for more. Mandep, welcome
back. You heard Kristen Biddley there of
city and she used the word benefits and
I hope we can talk about that for a
little bit because we're all talking
about existential risk and the
punishment and the losses we'll see
elsewhere. Are we going to see some
benefits and where?
Well, I think we have already started to
see uh quite a bit of disruption when it
comes to what Enthropic has shown with
coding agents and look at the cadence of
their product releases this year. There
is a reason why they went from you know
10 to 14 billion in a matter of six
weeks because uh they have themselves
released uh you know a few new products
and the coding agent release that they
had has empowered this narrative that
you know you can create a lot of
customized software so I know the
narratives is what's driving the market
right now but underneath that there is
substance in the sense like this is
quite a powerful model release from uh
anthropic and and same thing with what
open AI is trying to do with codec. So
suddenly that coding agent is not just a
category of its own but also what it can
do in terms of disrupting other
categories and that's why you're seeing
this sort of reaction with stocks
>> and mandep I think the private market
firms are equally as frustrated with the
moment in fact perhaps more so this came
from Mr. Aragetti in the last week or
so. If you're going to underwrite a
narrative of AI disruption, you also
then have to say, well, what does that
mean for the productivity and the margin
improvement in the rest of your book,
Mandy, what is it going to take for that
to become the more dominant narrative in
financial markets?
>> I mean, I do think, you know, when it
comes to workflows, which is what we
have been talking about, you know, how
AI can disrupt workflows, you will start
to see it impact certain types of jobs.
But again the way market is acting is
you know everything will happen at the
same time and that's where you know the
costbenefit analysis the margin impact
needs to be taken into account and uh
some of the software companies will be
implementing AI on behalf of the clients
right now they were sort of naysayers in
terms of or they were probably too slow
in terms of adding that AI
functionality. This will force them to
you know really uh figure out what are
the valid use cases that they need to
incorporate as part of their software
and I think you will see more of that in
terms of the software companies really
doubling down on the use cases that they
feel their clients should implement.
>> Mandy just before you go I want to
finish with this question. You follow
tech in the industry for a long long
time. I often lean on you for your
insights because they're far better than
mine. When you look at what's happening
with a company like Anthropic at the
moment, how much of that is just the
preIPO road show and how much of it is
real? What's hype and what's not? That's
what I'm trying to get my head around at
the moment. Is this a big marketing push
that's causing a lot of anxiety or is it
something more?
>> There is something more. And that's
where the latest model release they had
clearly has shown a leap in terms of the
performance versus other foundational
models. And anyone who was saying models
will get commoditized I think is wrong.
So you are seeing these companies
actually differentiate based on the
functionality and that's why you have
seen so much momentum with entropic
right now.
>> Mand thank you Mandy Singh there of
Bloomberg. Wait until the road show
actually begins. Imagine what the
headlines are going to be like then
>> we're all going away. We're not Can I
just say
>> can I just take a second
>> that wasn't a trade recommendation. I
know it's just like [laughter] I like
the small print.
>> It's always the same isn't it? It's like
you see the headline the warning. Yeah,
exactly. At
>> the end, it's always buy whatever was
sellout.
>> Of course, which is the reason why by
Claude. Um, can we just take a note?
Algorithm Holdings, the karaoke company
turned trucking logistics company. Algo
Rhythm. Its ticker is Rhyme. R I M E.
>> Brilliant. I just have to give a nod to
that. Really again written for uh
written for Hollywood itself.
>> Sarah, you've been tracking the same
stories.
>> How much of it is hype? How much of it
is real? I think we all understand the
technological development is happening
much faster than we thought and a lot of
it is real, but some of it just feels
just a little bit too
hyperbolic. When I see headlines like
we're going to wipe out white collar
work in 18 months,
>> what do you think it is?
>> I think it's a combination. I think in
some places there's going to be room to
not do stuff. I mean already you go into
a fast food restaurant and you're you
are encouraged to order on a thing and
not with a person anymore. There are a
lot of things that are going to change.
What is going to be the ultimate answer
for all this? I don't think it's going
to be as hyperbolic as it sounds. But
this is a more difficult technology to
understand. The internet when it first
started people were like well that's not
going to this isn't going to take off.
This is a it completely changed things
but not in the way that people thought
that they would be changed. Right? So in
the scheme of things, where are we going
to go next from here is hard to say,
which is why it's so easy to say it's
definitely going to decimate this
industry, this industry that you have to
look at this industry, this industry,
and we just don't know yet. Jonathan
Kinsky of BTI had a really interesting
note where he was talking about how the
bifurcation is getting pretty extreme.
He said, "The AI winners and losers, the
moves in single stocks are getting more
and more extreme. At a certain point, we
begin getting concerned that the
weakness supersedes the strength and the
broad market becomes vulnerable. Are we
getting closer to that point where the
dispersion turns into actual general
weakness?
>> It certainly has been across the leading
sectors. And then the question becomes,
can what is going to pick up as a
leading sector? Is it going to be
staples? Because markets aren't going to
love staples as a leading sector. What
is going to take over from the hype that
we had of AI capex is the best thing
that ever happened to the universe to oh
my god, people are spending way too much
money and once that money is spent, it's
going to be terrible for everything.
That's where we are right now. We could
flip that script in a couple of months.
It's hard to see what flips that script
right now because some of these things
that are coming out are so good that
people are looking at it who do the jobs
and say, "Wow, this is something that
could really be impactful for the
industry." So that's why you're getting
much more of a reaction right now than
you did with Deepseek, which was a
quicker one. Why wouldn't you just go
back into the big tech names if you had
faith that this uh technology truly was
disruptive?
>> I think that you I I actually think for
some of them, I mean, we were talking
about Amazon earlier. I think for some
of them you absolutely would. People
don't like to be in the middle of a
capex cycle, but it doesn't mean that
that's not a good opportunity to buy
that stock because in the scheme of
things, what this pushes to is more big
and less little, which is tough for the
whole small cap discussion because that
was part of what was rallying early into
the year. And the value discussion has a
tendency to be more on the smaller
midcap side than it is on on the mega
cap side or the big cap side. So, I
think that there's definitely room for
that. But there's also there will be
more of an emphasis on people leaning
into companies that seem less
disruptible and that tends to be
smaller.
>> You mentioned the Kinsky note. His point
is the semis are got to hold up and if
they don't hold up we got a problem.
Semis the eyes share semiconductor ETF
up for nine consecutive weeks. Yesterday
though some weakness they should be the
big beneficiary of all this capex. They
should be the winners. If you start to
see some real damage inflicted there
then sure we got a big problem given the
waiting on the S&P from some of those
big names. because ultimately then also
means that the capex isn't going to be
worth it or ultimately isn't going to
come through in the same kind of way in
an overall downtrend in the economy and
ultimately that's why it does come down
to the economy to the jobs market to the
inflation backdrop and of course always
back to Kevin Walsh
>> there's a lot of cliches on Wall Street
one of my favorite is if you think the
world's going to end what's the value of
being short and I do wonder if we start
to get to that point in financial
markets with this trade if you really
think disruption is going to be that
great that everyone's going to lose
their job and it's going to be the end
of capitalism
What's the value of being short?
>> I'm looking for your tin foil hat. I
can't see it.
>> No, in fact, I'm saying the opposite.
I'm not sure, you know.
>> No, no, but but but it's true. But if
the world's going to
>> What's the point of having money, you
know, like they're going to take it all
off you anyway? Might as well be long.
>> It's not. You know, look, you're not
wrong. I mean, you might as well just be
long that and long maybe your go bag.
>> This show is just full of [music]
existential risk today. It's just a
little bit too much, isn't it?
>> I do think that it's getting a little
bit overdone.
>> The divide's pretty amazing, though.
like the concerns on Wall Street. Is
this even reaching [music] Main Street
yet? Are they even thinking about what's
being concerned and taught?
>> They haven't been happy all year as Wall
Street was screaming. So, I think that
there's been this divide.
>> Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Words.
Sarah, thank you. This is Bloomberg
[music]
equity softer negative by 210 of 1% on
the S&P 500. softer also by on the
NASDAQ by about a quarter on a Russell
we're down by.16%. [music]
1 hour from now CPI inflation America
the last thing this market needs is a
hopper in the bond market [music]
10-year bond yields near the lows of the
year the bonds are working that's the
good news 41038 on treasuries in the
face of better than expected data from
payrolls [music] early this week and a
decent ISM the week before.
>> Yeah, honestly this otherwise should be
a strong economy and yet it does seem
like people are going into bonds with
the expectation that it's going to roll
over. I think you're right. It does feel
like something of a recession trade or
people feel like there is going to be
something dramatic that's going to
undermine some of the growth trajectory
[music] or at least that is the
expectation going into it. I'm just
thinking about if we get a really hot
inflation [music] print, what happens?
Do people get more optimistic? Do people
just suddenly throw in the towel and
say, "Forget it. I'm going on vacation
for the next month."
>> The problem with the data right now that
I can give it to you and no one really
knows what to do with it.
>> I mean, honestly, where would it even
come from that suddenly people start to
get worried? Is it coming from Birkin
handbags? Kit Juice sock genen put it
perfectly last week about [music]
payrolls. We were meant to get it on
Friday and he turned around and said
even if we got it tomorrow I wouldn't
know what to do with it. It's kind of
true of CPI a little bit later as well.
>> Andrew Hollhorst from Croup he was
supposed to do a victory lap. He got it
almost bang on the nose in terms of the
actual headline number. He comes in you
say to him you guys did really well and
he said we were 5,000 off but who knows
what this means anyway which gives you a
sense of just where people are.
>> Everyone's so downbeat already. What are
we 7 8 weeks into the [music] into the
year? Seven weeks. People are confused
and it's frustrating to feel confused,
but there are some people who are making
a lot of money and I'd like to speak to
them and exactly how.
>> Yeah, I'd like to talk to them too,
particularly those on the short side in
some of these sectors
>> finding things like algorithm
>> who found the karaoke company that done
so well.
>> Please stand [music] up.
>> Yeah,
>> call in.
>> Few hours away from the opening bow.
Let's get you some morning movers. Danny
has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey, John. Starting with an upbeat story
for you and that is Rivian Beats across
the board and booking its first annual
gross profit. something that this
company has never been able to do and a
really rare bright spot in an EV
industry that's just been downtrodded
with with gloom. They also are going to
start selling their more one of their
more cheaper SUVs this year. So,
positive outlook for sales for them. So,
shares up a whopping 20.8%. [music]
Uh, not all the stories are good out
there. Pinterest, it was a miss on their
guidance for their current quarter.
Shares are down 20.8%.
That really hurts. They also announced a
lot of layoffs. They said that they uh
this was in months prior that they're
going to be shifting more towards AI. So
that not helping them at least for now.
Uh the company has warned in the past
that things like tariffs have hurt some
of their advertisers for categories like
homegoods. So that has clearly [music]
been weighing on them. Finally, Expedia,
this is another one of those instances
of a headscratching market panic type
moment because Expedia had fantastic
earnings. Their fourth quarter was the
best in three years in terms of growth
of their sales. the first quarter. Also,
expectations easily beat Wall Street.
But the commentary is around AI anxiety.
Does Expedia get replaced by some sort
of AI agent that can just book your
travel for you? So, who cares about the
good earnings? Shares are [music] down
5.8% in the pre-market. John
>> seen a few of those over the past few
weeks. Danny, thank you. More from Danny
[music] in the next hour. Can we talk
about a good story? Rivian, just proof
that if you make a nice looking EV, a
nicely performing car, people will buy
it. And Rivian proving that's the case.
just have door handles. Just have them
that come out so that you can open the
door. It's really nice. But yes, Rivian
coming out and showing that if you make
a nice vehicle, people will want to buy
it. And they've got pre-orders up the
wazoo. And I'm seeing an [music]
increasing number of Rivians. They're
actually really attractive.
>> The new midsize SUV is a very
good-looking car. I'm looking forward to
seeing that on the road over the next 12
months or so.
>> In your doorway, in your in your
driveway.
>> Who knows? Oh, yeah.
>> I'll keep you posted. All right, let's
see. All right. On our way down this
morning, logistics stocks becoming the
latest victims of the AI scare trade. A
former karaoke company sparking the
sell-off, announcing a logistics
platform was scaling freight volumes
without increasing headcount. Elsewhere,
Open AI delivering a warning to US
lawmakers. The maker of chat GBT
claiming Chinese rival DeepSeek is
distilling US models to gain an edge in
the AI race. Open AAI also alleging
DeepSeek is using increasingly complex
methods to evade detection. And finally,
Anthropic raising $30 billion in its
latest funding round. the investments
pushing the AI firm's valuation to 380
billion as it looks to compete with
rival OpenAI.
>> So, you've been talking about how a lot
of the concerns and warnings are
essentially a road show. Although, I
would say how are they going to make
money off of this? And this is really a
key question. If Anthropic is coming up
with these truly disruptive bottles, if
they were trying to disseminate them and
win market share, how do they get their
margins up at a time where it actually
is expensive to hire some of these
people? So that will be something that
people will be looking at. But they're
raising money at a very quick uh clip. I
mean, if you think about $10 billion a
couple weeks ago, now it's $30 billion.
The valuation's going up. I mean, it
just how big are some of these private
market companies that are setting up to
IPO later this year to potentially
dominate indexes that currently don't
even have their eyes on them?
>> There is a lot of paper that needs to be
moved. There's a lot of debt that needs
to be issued over the next 12 months.
And certain headlines benefit those
things. That's all I'll say about that.
I don't think that the techn is a head
fake. It's real. I just think there is a
massive marketing component to a lot of
this and you're going to see more of it
in the next 12 months.
>> I'd be inclined to agree with you and I
like that skeptical take because it
indicates that maybe some of the fears
of our jobs being totally eradicated in
terms of necessity uh have been somewhat
overblown. The people who are on the
inside are talking about how quickly
this is happening and how well this is
sort of rolling out. I'll give you an
example. Walmart. People are talking
about how much their market cap has been
increased. Is this just sort of people
going into toilet paper unnecessarily?
Is this a February 2020 kind of story
that will fade over time? Walmart is
investing so much money in artificial
intelligence. They are using it in every
part of their supply chain. They're
using it for their warehouses. They're
using it to get margin improvement that
their competitors can't. So they can
compete on price and they can get
profitability and they have the data to
show it. So people are looking at them
in a different way. Who are the other
beneficiaries of it who are going to
experience a similar type of trend? It
is going to be the bigger companies, but
it is going to be a significant material
benefit. It just maybe hasn't happened
yet.
>> It's why that name is at a 50p ahead of
earnings next week, which is remarkable.
Elsewhere, then let's move on to energy.
The US energy secretary, Chris Wright,
traveling to Venezuela, meeting with the
interim president, Darcy Rodriguez, in a
push to increase foreign oil investment
in the country. And Marie's been
speaking with the energy secretary in
the oil fields.
In the first year, we'll see pretty
significant 30 40% growth in Venezuelan
oil production. We want it to be open to
less corrupt um honest American, Western
American allies for business. The
influence of China and Russia and Iran
that has been very large in Venezuela
will become very small.
>> Amarie joins us now from Washington.
AMH, welcome back. Fantastic couple of
days. We've all been tracking the story
on your social media account on X. You
heard Chris right there, the energy
secretary. He talked about the influence
of China, Russia, and Iran. When you're
in the country, do you see that
influence? How obvious is it?
>> Oh, absolutely. And on the route to that
facility we were at, that was a joint
midstream facility between Chevron and
Pedesa, you actually saw a Chinese
facility as well as a Russian facility.
And we should note that some of the
flaring from those facilities are black
smoke as opposed to what many in the oil
industry would call cleaner flarings
from the likes of Chevron. The presence
there is profound when it comes to these
countries. And that is why this is part
of what this administration would call
the Donro doctrine. Not only do a lot of
individuals think on the left and the
right of this country bipartisanly in
Congress that Nicholas Maduro had to go,
that something needed to change on the
ground when it comes to Venezuela. But
this administration also sees this as a
chance to really push out the influence
of the Chinese and the Russians in their
what they would call their sphere of
influence. And he made that very clear
to me yesterday speaking in the oil
field saying that we want to make sure
that US companies are here and that this
influence you see from say Beijing or
Moscow that that starts to wayne in
Venezuela.
>> Does the interim president agree? Amri I
think that's the big question. When the
energy secretary says the influence of
China, Russia and Iran has been very
large. It will become very small. Is the
interim president on board?
>> Jonathan I don't think she has a choice
right now. Tomorrow marks six weeks from
US special Delta forces captured
President Nicholas Maduro and brought
him to Brooklyn and New York. And now
she is this interimm president. And
within this month and a half, you see
the highest ranking US official right
there, Chris Wright, meeting her at the
presidential palace. I cannot describe
to you and emphasize how surreal and
uncanny this moment is, how quickly this
administration is moving to try to
change the path and the course of this
country. And she spoke about it. I asked
her, "Do you plan on visiting the United
States?" She kind of shrugged and she
says, "A lot of work to do here." But at
some point, yes. And an invitation was
delivered to her. And then yesterday
before we departed, Chris Wright said,
"You can expect other US government
officials, say another cabinet
secretary, other US companies to come to
Venezuela and have these discussions."
So the United States is going to be
there. He used the term nudge to me.
Others might use the term coers or have
leverage over this interimm uh
administration government until there's
a free elections in Venezuela. So
absolutely, she kind of has no choice
but to go along here, especially given
the fact that this is a government that
relies 95% of their funding and their
budget still comes from oil, even though
it's a country that is only producing
under a million barrels a day, not the
heights we saw of 3.5 million barrels a
day. So the opportunities are there for
Venezuela. And the companies that can do
this and turn it around, are going to be
US companies, especially when you look
at the likes of Chevron, which to our
reporting is potentially going to get
another exploration block from Caracus
and potentially a new license from the
US administration.
>> And Marie, I'm glad that you went there.
It's one thing for Chevron, which
already has a presence there. It's
another thing for Exxon, where Darren
Woods has already said, "Look, we're out
of money in a significant way already.
Why would we go back without certain
security guarantees?" Did you get any
sense of what the security parameters
were going to be? What the guarantees
were going to be to entice the likes of
Exxon back into the region?
>> So, there's not going to be any security
guarantees. And Chris Wright reiterated
that yesterday to me. He also said this
to us, of course, in Davos when he
announced that he'd be going on this
trip shortly. There won't be security
guarantees. But I think part of this
visit was to show that you can
potentially go to Venezuela, operate,
and be safe. If you look at the State
Department's travel advisory, it says do
not go there if you're an American
citizen for arbitrary laws potentially
that they're coming after you for
kidnapping, theft, and crime. On the
ground, I was speaking to a lot of local
journalists who said, "Look, actually
Venezuela has become a little bit more
secure. It's not at the height it was
when you had protests and tear gas and
and high crime. People do feel like the
situation is getting more secure, and
there is a lot of hope there. When it
comes to some of these big oil players
though, what I thought was very
interesting from my conversation
yesterday with Secretary Wright was that
he said these companies like Kico
Phillips are in active discussions with
Deli Rodriguez right now about recouping
those billions of dollars they lost when
Venezuela nationalized the oil industry
decades ago. And he also said she
understands that and has regrets that
mistakes were made. So that said to me
that she definitely wants to have a
opening of a dialogue with some of these
bigger oil companies to come back in.
The scene yesterday was striking to me.
Six weeks ago they captured Nicholas
Maduro and then yesterday I was at a
Venezuela oil field with Secretary
Wright and Deli Rodriguez. They toured
the entire day today looking at these
facilities and I think that picture is
what they want to project that this is
open for business and we want US dollars
back in this country. It's incredible
how quickly this story has moved. Amir,
it's great to catch up. Welcome back.
Looking forward to having you back in
the sea next week. Amir Hordan following
her trip to Caracus, Venezuela.
>> Yeah, I was looking at the other uh
areas that have level four do not travel
warnings from the United States to see
where she might go next. Afghanistan,
Russia, Ukraine, Iran, North Korea,
Syria, Haiti, Venezuela. I
>> think she's done most of those exception
of Haiti.
>> I know. So, she can uh she can go
through that list and figure out what's
next.
>> Yeah. When she takes her next vacation.
That'll be fun. Yeah, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The Trump
administration working to narrow its
scope on some metal tariffs. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, changes
specifically target levies on steel and
aluminum products that many companies
find difficult to calculate and
negatively impact consumers. Aluminum is
trading lower in London after the
report.
The search continues for Nancy Guthrie,
the 84year-old mother of Today Show
co-host Savannah Guthrie.
>> [music]
>> the FBI doubling the reward for
information leading to her capttors to
$100,000. [music] They've also released
more information about the masked man
seen in surveillance video, saying he's
about 5'9 with an average build and he's
wearing a black 25 L Ozark Trail hiker
pack backpack.
City Group is boosting CEO Jane
Frasier's 2025 pay to $42 million. The
22% increase follows a year which saw
the stock surge more than any other Wall
Street bank. The pay bump also puts
Frasier's total [music] package for the
year just a million dollars behind that
of JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. John. [music]
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, all eyes on
inflation.
>> January and February inflation prints
have just been [music] strong the past
couple years. We think it's going to be
a softer reading today, but there
there's a lot of uncertainty around what
exactly the reading is going to be.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Kelsey
Barrow of JP Morgan Asset Management
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
2% from alltime highs on the S&P 500,
down just 210 of 1%. Everything's fine.
On the NASDAQ 100, we're down by a
quarter of 1%. On the Russell, we're
down by 0.2. At the index level, just a
completely [music] different story.
Beneath the index, it's messy. This
comes from Chris Harvey over a CIBC.
Staples, a favorite risk aversion
[music] sector in rarified air with 16%
outperformance year to date. In the last
25 years, the group has only seen
greater annual outperformance [music]
three other times. And all three were
associated with doubledigit losses for
[music] S&P. The S&P 500 down just 2%
from all-time highs.
>> This is the reason why the likes of
Jonathan Kinsky are saying maybe we're
getting to the point where you could see
a broadening out where you could start
to see [music] some sort of index level
drawd down as a result of some of the
rotating pain that we're seeing tied to
AI. A real question of when the data
will show that because we didn't get
that in the headline jobs p picture, but
people seem to be shrugging it off and
saying you're just not seeing the real
thing.
>> We haven't seen a lot of index level
stress yet yet and that's a debate of
the moment. Futures then just a little
bit softer in the bond market. Yields
near the lows of the year on a tenure at
the moment in the bond [music] market
410. Under Savanis this morning, all
eyes on inflation.
January and February inflation [music]
prints have just been strong the past
couple years. We think it's going to be
a softer reading today, but there
there's a lot of uncertainty [music]
around what exactly the reading is going
to be. Um I do think by the time we get
to the end of this year, we'll have a
pretty clear [music]
slower inflation trend. And I think we
have actually established that in the
underlying data and the details. [music]
Um, but are we going to see that today?
Are we going to see that in the next
couple months?
>> Here's the latest this morning. Delayed
January inflation data due out at 8:30
Eastern time. The estimate in our survey
expecting core CPI to rise 0.3% month
overmonth. Cassie Barrow of JP Morgan
asset management writing market
participants should be prepared for a
hotter CPI report in January after a few
months of significant weakness. Cassie
joins us now for more. Cassie, good
morning.
>> Good morning. Before we get to that
data, 40 minutes away, let's just talk
about how different things are in
bondland. People are freaking out in
equities for good reason. In certain
sectors, I understand the stress. In
fixed income, how relaxed is everyone in
fixed income?
>> Well, we're not relaxed. We're still
focused. Uh but what you are seeing uh
is a situation in which uh fixed income
demand remains extremely robust and
you're seeing it across the spectrum
from not just treasuries but also
highquality fixed income. So whether it
be the Google issuance that was done
earlier this week that was very well
subscribed, those bonds are still
generally on sides relative to where
they were issued. And that's despite the
fact that we've had a fair bit of
volatility this week. And then you look
at the 30-year auction yesterday, um,
which we were rallying into the numbers,
uh, rallying into the auction and yet we
still got record enduser demand. So, the
highest end user demand in the history
of the 30-year auction. Uh, so what
we're seeing uh is continued demand uh
pretty much across the spectrum and the
stress within the AI and the software uh
names is still very very concentrated.
So, you think about the high yield
market, software makes up less than 5%
of of that index. Uh you do look out
into the leverage loan space and it's a
little bit more than that. at it's
closer to 15%. But actually where a lot
of the uh software funding has come from
has been the private credit space rather
than the public space.
>> So right now in corporate credit spreads
are still pretty tight. 275 on high
yield. Everything's okay. Supply comes
in. Demand meets it in IG. We saw that
from tech. You mentioned Alphabet.
Great. This is the frustrating thing for
anyone who covers sovereign fixed
income. If yields are up, it's
problematic. And if demand is great,
it's a problem, too. Because why is
demand so great for a 30-year bond
issue? Where's that demand coming from?
And what are people scared of? And I
know that's really annoying for anyone
in treasuries because when yields were
higher, it was sell America the
basement. People don't want don't want
to own the stuff and when they want to
buy it and really want to buy it, people
are equally as concerned. So where's the
demand coming from and why?
>> I think the demand is fairly
wellbalanced uh between uh both uh
domestic and and foreign investors. I
will say though, this isn't happening in
a vacuum. And one thing that I think is
a little underappreciated
is we've seen this bull flattening in
the yield curve over the last week. And
it's not just in the US. Take a look at
how Japanese JGBs have moved. The 1030s
curve in Japan is at its flattest levels
in months. There has been very strong
support for the back end of the Japanese
curve. And I think, you know, a lot of
this is really tied together because
when we were looking at the
underperformance of the long end of the
US curve at the tail end of last year
and the beginning of this year, people
were saying is sell America back. And I
was saying, uh, I I think this is kind
of a broader uh fixed income technical
story within uh broader developed market
sovereigns. And now you're kind of
seeing some of that retracement happen.
Um, so it's not just something that's
happening here in the US, but it's also
happening across other developed market
sovereign debt uh curves.
>> When people talk about this America
trade, they mean a lot of different
things. And Michael Hart of Bank of
America put out a note this morning
talking about the fact that uh stocks in
Europe, Japan, and other international
develop markets have drawn in $104
billion versus 25 billion to the United
States. You've seen money move
elsewhere. Are you seeing the opposite
dynamic in fixed income in terms of
international investors wanting to come
to the United States because of
relatively higher yields and frankly uh
in some ways better companies? I'm
thinking of Alphabet and what they sold
over in Europe and they're actually
seeing more value right now. So there is
the relatively higher yields. There's
also the fact that there is quite a lot
of liquidity uh within the US fixed
income markets relative to other uh
markets that are smaller. I will note
though that if you look at some of the
issuance trends within the corporate
market over the last week, you know,
Google didn't only issue in dollars.
They also issued uh in sterling. Um and
I think that is an indication that from
the issuer side, they're looking at
diversifying their funding book, which
is a very a smart move on their part.
and they're picking up the fact that
there is incremental demand uh across
other markets as well.
>> Do you think that what we're seeing with
right now with respect to spreads in US
corporate credit and I'm talking about
public markets is not necessarily
representative of credit risk in the way
that it had been because private credit
has been the area that a lot of the
stress has been concentrated. In other
words, do you think that private credit
is acting as a buffer right now leading
to that stability in public market
spreads? I think that's probably part of
the story. Uh but it's part of the story
that's been kind of going on for a while
now. So when I talk to our high yield
analysts on an index level, they say the
US high yield market is the best quality
it has ever been kind of full stop. And
that is a function of some of that lower
quality debt being uh financed within
the private credit market. So yes, I
mean this is a different fundamentally
different market and so the resilience
uh you know should be taken uh and
understood within the context of better
fundamentals for these companies.
>> Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan. Kelsey,
appreciate it. Thank you. Are you
getting at the old adage that maybe
credit doesn't leave anymore in the same
way that it used to?
>> I mean that's essentially what a lot of
people have been saying and the reason
why when I look at the distress that
we're seeing in equity markets and
people say well we're not seeing it in
credit so it's fine. might not have the
same ring as it has in the past because
it might not be comparing apples to
apples in the way that it once was.
>> To your point, Kelsey just went through
the numbers. If you look at high yield,
high yield spreads are still super tight
at 275, but they're exposure to the
story that we think is full of risk
right now. Isn't that great? It's
elsewhere.
>> It's leverage loans and it's private
credit. And a lot of people have mapped
out just what proportion of loans or
what proportion of private credit
extension has come from some of the more
highly disruptible fields. And it is a
much bigger proportion. But it just goes
to question, what are the signals right
now? Where are we getting them? It used
to be high yield spreads. Is that still
the same signal if suddenly that's been
muddied by what's going on over in
private
>> stocks of private credit firms over the
last 12 months? I guess for some people.
>> Yeah. Well, although that has also been
idiosyncratic and [music] I think that
we've heard something to say about it
from Apollo and others. They are not
that happy.
>> Very downbeat. Do you want an upbeat
note? Jonathan Golib of Seapport joins
us next. He's very constructive about
the future. We'll catch up with
Republican Senator Tom Tillis, Tiffany
Welding of Pimco, Jim Carro of Morgan
Stanley. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner. CPI
[music] data 34 minutes away.
The things that have been driving the
market over the last couple of years
have now switched over.
>> It's no longer [music]
we're just going to take at face value
the AI trade. We are very heartened by
the embracer of this rotation.
>> We think it's a stock picker market,
[music] so you got to be selective.
There's plenty of opportunity globally
to diversify.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Down again
by quarter of 1% on the S&P. on the
NASDAQ down by a third in the bond
market. New lows for the year in the
last 24 hours. Very close to those
levels right now on 10s at 410 going
into this 29 minutes away. A CPI report
in America.
>> So how high is the bar for this CPI
report to be disinflationary enough to
put the Fed back in play? Maybe that
could give some calm to markets if you
do get some sort of disinflation.
[music]
JP Morgan is talking about 0.4% bad,
lower than 0.3% good. We'll have to look
at [music] the internals, but that is
the ultimate argument, right? How much
are we going to see some sort of
reduction in the pace of price increases
leading to the Fed to come back and
rescue [music] sentiment?
>> Bond markets loving it. Anyway, 30-year
auction yesterday, massive demand,
terrific demand, 30s down to 473. Kelsey
Barrow of JP Morgan on with us just
moments ago talking about the bull
flattening you're seeing not just in
America, [music] but elsewhere in places
like Japan.
>> I thought that you really nailed it.
This idea that stock investors are, "Oh
my gosh, my hair is on fire." And bond
investors are saying, "hm, we're doing
just fine." So please uh welcome. It is
an international story. It is a question
of what's going on with respect to
fiscal policy in Japan. [music]
Certainty around the political back
backdrop as much as it is about anything
in the United States. Nonetheless, the
relative calm that you're seeing in
fixed income belies the chaos that
you're seeing [music] in specific names.
And you're also seeing this in credit.
Is that because it is more ignored to
[music] some of those threats? Is it
because people just like the coupon
payments? Or is it because it's smarter
money that's looking past this and
saying, "Guys, get your act together."
whether the algorithmic traders really
need to just deal with their portfolios
and let's move on.
>> We seeing calm in equities too. At the
index level,
>> correct?
>> At the index level, the moves are really
muted. 2% [music] away from record
highs, just about unchanged on the year
so far. At the individual stock level,
these moves [music] are absolutely wild.
In fact, they're so wild they're things
you would associate with a bare market.
You'd [music] expect this stock market
at the index level based on these moves
to be down somewhere between 10 and 20%.
That's not happening. [music]
>> Which is the reason why Jonathan Kinsky
of BTI is saying maybe we're getting to
the point where suddenly it's going to
have an index [music] level uh
ramification. The NASDAQ has seen five
days in the past 10 being down more than
a percent. [music] Right? I mean if you
take a look there is some real churn
there that is leading to a downdraft
particularly in tech stocks. How long
this can last and whether this is just
superstitious on this Friday the 13th we
shall see. And I think that our next
guest has something to say about [music]
that. Yeah, he's got a much better view,
more constructive view of things. I just
got this note from Soggen just seconds
ago. Speculative [music] trades all
unwinding alto together. That's kind of
been the story. It's not just in
equities and in precious metals. You've
seen it in crypto [music] and Bitcoin.
You've seen this across the board.
>> You know, it does feel like there are a
bunch of big funds unwinding. [music]
Let's just be clear. It seems like
there's a lot of selling of gold to try
to cover those shorts. It does seem like
a lot of the momentum trades [music] are
just getting whipsawed around. I want to
see this when the dust clears. who the
winners are, who the losers are, [music]
and who was it who started each of the
different rumors of which different AI
trade is gonna
>> see this karaoke company, they're doing
something fresh now. Check it out.
>> Algorithm.
>> Amazing rhyme.
>> Amazing. By the way, I'm short.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, honestly, it just
there's a lot of stuff going on under
the surface. I'm looking forward to
finding out more.
>> Stocks negative by two cents of 1%. The
data 26 minutes away. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Jonathan Golib
of Seapport. As equities struggle for
[music] stability, Republican Senator
Tom Tillis as the Trump administration
tests transatlantic relations and
Tiffany Wilding of Pimco as markets
brace for a new inflation print. We
begin this hour with stocks sliding on
growing AI fears. Jonathan Golib of
Seapport writing the following. While AI
will clearly disrupt the software space
and other parts of the economy, we see
recent declines as a buying opportunity.
Jonathan joins us now for more.
Jonathan, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> You published in the last hour a
stronger economy. You're pushing back.
You said this. It has become quite
invogue to talk about how punk the
economy is. Weak job growth, deficit
spending, labor taking less of GDP.
However, from the market's perspective,
you believe the incoming data looks,
dare we say, pretty darn good. How good?
>> My favorite part of the Bloomberg
terminal is this function called ECFC,
where you get to look at economic
forecasts. The GDP forecast for the
fourth quarter, first quarter, second
quarter, and third quarter, all four of
them are up 50 basis points since the
beginning of the year. That's economic
out. And this is not uh you know, you
say like, well, everybody thinks things
are going to be worse. Economists
believe that we have that that the
outlook is better. And by the way,
between midyear last year and the end of
the year, you also had a 50 or 60 basis
point move up in expectations. Um if you
look at economic surprise data since
July across the board data is coming in
better than we would have expected. Um
you're looking at and you guys are
debating is inflation going to be 10
basis points higher or lower since
August inflation has fallen 50 basis
points. The jobs um you know the
unemployment rate two months in a row
the unemployment rate came down. I mean
we can go we can go on and on. the ISM.
We've had a great market run with the
ISM below 50
and now the ISM has popped the ISM new
orders which is stuff which is the most
forward-looking is over 57. I mean this
could not be a better story and and you
know you know lease is all always Lisa
is always nervous about something but
still you know this
>> don't take it out on Bremo [laughter]
Banks are down 6% this week. Staples are
up and Walmart has a 50p. You know,
>> you got to respect the price action. So
that's your view of the economy. I've
got all of that, but why are banks down
and utility and and the likes of Staples
sky high?
>> But if you look at the market, which is
really strange. If this was first of
all, you start with the point that and
you're right, the market's flat and you
have a lot of rotation. If there was
really fear, the market would be down
and tech would be be leading. However,
if you look at the things that are
leading, it's not only defensives. I
mean, industrials are are on fire year
to date. Energy materials look really
good. Tell me a time where the market is
panicking and it's moving into staples
and industrials at the same time by
roughly the same amount. It's almost as
if the market is saying is I want to
shoot a bunch of AI losers, whatever
those are, and I don't know what to do
with the rest. I'm just going to put it
in a bunch of other stuff undifferiated.
>> If you're going to be nervous about
something, and sure, I can always find
something to be nervous about. It is
actually a fantastic pastime. But I am
curious about your feeling about the
labor market and the interplay with some
of the AI adoption. We were talking
before the show about how you're really
bowled up in what AI can do. You're
using it a lot. One person can do the
work that 25 people used to do and
that's exciting to you. On the flip
side, that makes the average Joe or a
programmer very nervous because that
means they are not necessary and it
undermines the economic story. How do
you square those two narratives? You
know, this is I think and I can't think
of another uh situation going back a
hundred years where the lab the part of
the labor market that is safe are the
people who do manual labor. You know,
the the guy the plumber is not going to
be taken out by AI. Somebody who's a
farm worker is not going to be taken out
by it's the intellectual property
worker. It's the the lawyer and the
accountant and the consultant. Um which
is a very very different experience and
we don't know how to calibrate it. I can
tell you what we're doing. We are
finding ways of adding more value with
the resources that we have. We are
customizing the re the research product
around the needs of an individual
because AI allows us to have the
infrastructure to do that in a way that
n months ago it just was impossible to
do. So don't you understand then why
people might say that there are some
businesses that might not be necessary
anymore if you can do this yourself
rather than to outsource it to somebody
else. And guess what? those other 24
people who you could have hired also now
are out of work and have to find jobs as
a plumber or as a farmer because
evidently those are the only jobs
available. I mean at what point do you
start saying you can be optimistic about
the future but the price moves are
justified.
>> First of all we have an unemployment
rate in the low force. The job demand is
fine and the economy is healthy. Every
time we've had a disruptive economy, if
you go back, people were saying the same
thing. When we started having auto, you
know, automated you when when you were
able to collect your crops using a
machine rather than a person, people
said, "What are we going to do with all
these farm workers? It's going to be a
disaster." And when we move people to
factories to make, you know, your your
your shoes and your clothing, we said,
"Oh my god, what's going to happen to
the seamstress?" And yet here we are a
hundred years later and we have an
economy that's at full employment. We
find new and innovative things to do. If
you are not able to stay on top of the
curve, it is going to be rough for you.
So I I think that there going to be
they're going to be losers and winners
all over the place. But you know this
fear that that in some way that the
economy is not okay and that the markets
aren't going to be healthy, I think is
off.
>> What should you buy this morning? What
are you recommending? What are you
advocating for at the moment?
>> Well, so me let me maybe answer the
question a little bit differently. If
you look at if you look at the tech
basket relative to the rest of the
market, its earnings are on fire, it's
and its multiples are down 20% versus
the rest of the market. So, I think the
tech basket looks incredibly attractive.
If I look at if there's one group that
kind of stands out, it's actually the
the um the semi the AI semiconductor
names, the Avagados and the Nvidas. If
you look at the growth they're
delivering, how much the the upside
revisions are, their numbers, and how
inexpensive they are relative to that
growth, they look incredibly attractive.
I think that there's also a bunch of
things in the software space that are
dislocated near-term, but I think that
those um those big semi
>> the semis was a curious trade last week.
It was really interesting to us that we
had these announcements, these massive
capex intentions. You're all familiar
with the numbers 650 bidding across four
names and yet we saw semis trade softer.
What do you think that was about?
>> Yeah, I'm I'm I I can't answer on a on a
on a on a given day or or or week, but I
I can tell you what we do is we array
the entire technology space and we say
where is the m where's the momentum in
their earnings and then where's and
where's their valuation and what's their
price action and we try to find
situations where they can't be
justified. You cannot justify the
valuations being so low on some of these
semi-names for such exceptional um
exceptional growth and they do not have
the same capex um spend that you do on
these hyperscalers.
>> Would you be buying some of these
private credit stocks the the companies
the KKRs the Apollos that have gotten
very beaten up?
>> It it's it's kind of it's not in my it's
not in my line of focus. I will tell you
if if we get outside of the whole AI
conversation, I'll tell you what I I I
think. Um
>> there's more to life outside.
>> Well, [laughter] maybe not. Maybe not.
Yeah. But
>> us. He's like, I I'll ask the question
you should have asked.
>> I'm sorry.
>> No, carry on.
>> But um the the focus this year,
especially as we move through the year,
is going to be on the the midterm
elections, which are going to be super
important. In order for um in order for
Republicans to hold um both houses of
Congress, they're going to need a
consumer that is feeling um heard. Um
and that means that um there's going to
be a lot of effort to um to to ease the
burden on consumers to make housing more
affordable, to make their their basket
of goods and services more affordable
and and the like. I there's the conduit
for that is the financials. you have you
have to prop up the banking sector in
order to get money in people's hands and
also consumer stocks. I think those are
going to be a win. Um I think that the
housing sector um housing stocks, home
builders like are going to be a focus.
You've seen the um the buying of
mortgage paper by the GSC's. I think
there's going to be more focus on that.
>> Isn't that a point of tension in your
outlook though? A little contradiction
that you start the conversation by
saying the economy is really good and
you finish the conversation by saying
it's so bad they're going to have to do
these things. No, I mean, you know, if
you if you looked at where I started the
note, labor is taking a smaller part of
of the overall pie. The inflation number
might be down now, but we're still going
out on a Saturday night and the cost of
that dinner, people saying, "When is it
going to come down?" We all know it
doesn't come down. It just goes up more
slowly. They need to feel heard. We're,
you know, they need to know that that
there are things being done to to
address these affordability issues. And
in order to do that, any policy that's
going to address that is going to pump
up um the consumer and consumer stocks.
>> Jon, it's good to see you.
>> Thank you, sir. Much brighter, more
constructive outlook from Jonathan
Goliver Seapport. Blaming Bremo for
banks being down 6% this week.
>> Just because I'm genetically nervous
does not mean that it's my fault. Let's
just put that on the record. I will say
the alpha generator writes in. I think
that he wanted to be heard uh as well.
And I just want to clarify something
with private credit stocks. Not to say
that it's a monolith either. There will
be dispersion there too, but clearly
it's a sort of PR issue that they have
to sort of delineate the good actors
from the bad actors and that's going to
be an increasing factor.
>> Staples up this week, utilities hired by
4%. Quite defensive stuff. Banks have
been hammered.
>> Yeah.
>> If you looked at that, you would just
say that that's like a recession trade
coming on the radar on the horizon over
the last week.
>> Yeah. And you look at some of the uh
stories that are getting the most
attention. It's the delinquency rates
going up across the board. It's this
concern about the challenger job cuts
and things of that nature. So very much
a tilt that's similar to my nervous
genetic predisposition.
>> Inflation data 60 minutes away. Don't
apologize. Bremo. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief.
Anthropic raising 30 billion in its
latest funding round lifting the firm's
valuation to 380 billion making it one
of the world's largest private
companies. Elsewhere, Applied Material
shares surging in the pre-market. the
largest US supplier of chipmaking gear,
delivering an upbeat sales forecast,
signaling strong demand for AI [music]
despite recent volatility. That stock is
up by 10%. And finally, New York and New
Jersey expecting the federal government
to unfreeze funds for the Hudson River
Gateway Tunnel project. The project's
developer expecting over $200 million
[music] to be reimbursed. The project
still needs clarity on federal funding
going forward. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, Republican Senator Tom
Tillis as the US tests the limits of its
NATO allies. Plus, we'll also talk to
him about the race to confirm Kevin
Walsh down in Washington DC. An update
on the other side from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
If I say that this is going to come for
you no matter what, it's difficult to
say [music] no, it isn't and this is
why. And I think that this is the
biggest problem is really trying to
understand exactly what the technology
[music] is displacing because are people
going to be comfortable listening to
only AI and not talking to any people
which is the direction that right now
that you know that the market is going.
>> That was Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and
Woods joining the program a little bit
earlier. Here's the direction the
market's going in this morning. Down
lower by a third of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ was softer by 0.4. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, HSBC cutting its price
target on Adobe to 302, highlighting
competitive risk from AI powered tools.
Elsewhere, UBS upgrading Rivian to
neutral, saying the firm [music] remains
excited about the EV makers product
pipeline. And finally, Key Bank raising
its price target on Walmart to 145,
citing higher tax refunds and easier
monetary policy. That name still down by
0.2% [music] after a monster rally. One
more name for you in the pre-market.
Alibaba just fell out of bed. It's down
by four to 5% in the pre-market. [music]
This coming from Reuters that the Trump
administration is expected to add
Alibaba to a list of firms that
allegedly help China's [music] military.
That headline just crossed in a
Bloomberg just seconds ago.
>> Yeah. And the significance of this and
the reason why there's such a knee-jerk
reaction in the ADRs is [music] that
there are procurement bans with respect
to uh contracts in the United States for
some of the companies that are put on
lists like this. lobbying restrictions,
[music] investment pro prohibitions,
financial and trade restrictions. So,
there are a whole host of consequences
that can come along with a designation
[music] like this.
>> Let's keep it on the geopolitics. Global
leaders gathering at the Munich Security
Conference. The US Secretary of State
Marco Rubio leading a delegation as the
Trump administration pushes
transatlantic ties potentially to their
limits. The Republican Senator Tom
Tillis is on the ground in Munich and he
joins us now for more. Senator, welcome
back to the program. Forgive me for
doing this live in the moment, but the
news just crossed. This is on Alibaba
reporting from Reuters that the Trump
administration is expected to add
Alibaba to a list of firms that
allegedly help China's military. This
according to reports, sir, just moments
ago. Senator, clearly the US
administration and Congress for that
matter is looking to put a bit of a
squeeze on China landing in Europe in
Munich, Germany. Do you believe that you
have the Europeans on side in this
effort?
Um, I I think we do, but let's go back
to Alibaba and and honestly, any
business that's doiciled in China, does
anybody really believe that there's
separation between the CCCP and the
stateowned enterprises and other
supposedly independent businesses. I
think the president is on the right
track to make sure that we're starting
to hold China accountable. We need a
good relationship with them, but it
needs to be one that's founded on trust.
And quite honestly, there are moves in
China that I don't trust. So, Senator,
with that in mind, should US-based
investors be able to have access to
investing in these companies?
>> Um, well, look, I've got a real problem
with uh I we had a banking committee
meeting yesterday with um um with Atkins
before from the SEC and I've got a real
problem with the US getting into a trend
of uh buying into some of our companies.
Uh, I I um I feel like we should let the
free market really drive innovation and
and also back to the segment before I I
I watched your prior segment. We've also
got to unleash AI. We can't be afraid of
it. We have to embrace it. We have to
leverage it and we have to be the leader
in innovating in it.
>> Well, Senator, let's talk about that.
Creative destruction is a a feature of
the US economy and American dynamism is
something Lisa was talking about earlier
on this morning. Senator, I feel like
there's an aversion to that these days
and a fear associated with some of the
headlines we've all seen over the past
week, the prospect of white collar jobs
being wiped out. How do we prepare for a
moment like that and ensure that what
globalization did to manufacturing
doesn't happen to services with AI?
>> Well, we have to be ever watchful, but
the bell has been rung. We could either
decide to be the innovation leader and
work with our partners and allies, the
the the nations that we have military
alliances with to make sure that the
Western world is still in the in the
front of it. But I'm I'm reminded of
books that I read about the industrial
revolution and anytime that we've had a
major leap in technology, we we can't
pretend like it didn't happen. We have
to figure out how to master it and and
be the best practice in executing it and
dealing with all the potential negative
consequences and job displacement. I
think the jury is still out on what the
net job displacement is going to be.
Does it mean that we've got to put more
money in education and retooling expert
expertise around the needs of the AI
future? Probably almost certainly. But
uh we should resist it. We should make
sure that we get rid of the patchwork of
laws that are being implemented at the
state level that are impeded to our own
indigenous um innovation and AI, come up
with rules of the road at a federal
level and just unleash the power of the
US innovation economy to lead the world
and getting it right.
>> Senator, do you feel like
internationally there's the same
skepticism? You're in Europe. It's known
for uh regulating. they're experts in it
and it seems like a growing number of
people feel like that is hampering some
of the progress. I mean, is there the
same kind of enthusiasm? What's the mood
like around some of the AI story that's
causing a lot a lot of uh a lot of
volatility certainly here in the United
States?
>> But I for years I've been trying to
remind everyone of how critical we were
of the GDPR, data privacy, data breach
policies that the EU implemented. They
made mistakes. They corrected some of
them. But then states started
goldplating some of those policies.
California and other ones that are again
impediments to our tech sector. What we
need are national rule. This is clearly
interstate commerce. We need to preempt
these laws, make them better. If we find
a best practice, be instructed by that
at some state level. But we need to set
that platform right or the malign uses
of AI are going to outpace our ability
to stay up with them. That's that's why
I think it's so important. I I was the
one the only one actually 99 members
voted against it. There was a an
amendment last year to try and preempt
the AI laws at the state level come up
with a national standard. I think that
we need to do that very quickly and we
should throw data privacy data breach in
there so that we get it right and maybe
we have a goldplated standard that
Europe can be instructed by. In the
meantime, as people are concerned about
this labor market transition and the
pain that could come alongside it, it's
one reason why there's been so much
focus on the Federal Reserve. It's one
reason why people are saying it might
behoove the Fed to cut rates more
aggressively in order to ease the pain
for a number of individuals otherwise
might be losing their job. I mean, how
much are you feeling satisfied in the
process that you could get a hearing for
the nominee Kevin Walsh in the
notsodistant future? Do you think that
that's feasible?
Well, we could have a hearing all we
want, but until the investigation is
done, I still believe that the initial
inquiry and the investigation was a flex
to try and get the current chair to step
aside. Chair Pal has a term as chair
that expires in May. Uh he also has a
term that can extend for two more years.
I have no intention allowing any Fed
board nominee to move forward out of
committee and to be confirmed until this
matter is settled. Look, this is
foundational to Fed independence and I
for one, I'm going to stand on the side
of certainty and Fed independence is
what delivers certainty in our markets.
So, Senator, it's intriguing because we
heard from the Treasury Secretary
earlier on this morning speaking to the
American press and he said the following
that I spoke with Republican senators
early this week and I think we have
agreement to go ahead with the Walsh
hearing. Do you have an understanding of
where he's getting that impression from?
>> Well, you know, I've said that if if
they uh that they shouldn't confuse or
conflate two issues. The suggestion that
we should have an oversight hearing to
see how well this building project with
the Fed has gone fine with me. In fact,
I think we should have that kind of
oversight for the East Wing
construction, the upfit of the Air Force
One. That's kind of a mini Air Force One
because it can't fly out of US borders.
All of that is just good governance
oversight. None of that has anything to
do with an investigation that I believe
was dead on arrival. We are talking
about 2 minutes of testimony. uh that
seven members of the banking committee,
Republican members, including the chair,
have all said did not constitute a
crime. We've got a prosecutor who's not
listening to the eyewitnesses and
continuing. That's not productive, and
I'm not going to I'm not going to allow
it. Maybe they can convince a Democrat
to vote with them, but as long as I'm
the deciding vote, we can have Mr.
Marsh, who I would love to be the next
Fed chair, but I'm not going to confirm
the next Fed chair until I can be
absolutely certain that these sorts of
flexes do not always have members of the
Fed Federal Reserve Board or the chair
looking over their shoulder wondering
when they get the call from some US
attorney with a dream.
>> Senator, have you had the call from
Treasury or from the White House about
this? When was the last time you had the
conversation on the issue?
Well, I've had a I've had a conversation
with the American people in C-SPAN
yesterday on the floor, and I don't
think I was mincing words. I'm not
really known for that, but uh if I need
to make it very clear, this is about an
end or a resolution. I I'll give the uh
the prosecutor the benefit of the doubt.
Provide me with evidence beyond the two
minutes of testimony and the committing
that that seven Republican members said
it was not criminal. it was not
misleading and that there was no
criminal intent. It's it's it's like an
indictment looking for a crime and and
to me it just it's at the edge of
absurdity that I can't accept. The only
thing I know that I can do is exercise
my right as an individual senator to
hold up future nominations until this
investigation's done. uh to the to the
um to the assistant US attorney, bring
me evidence beyond the two minutes has
been rejected out of hand by members of
by the majority of Republican members on
the committee or prove to me that
there's been an instance where a
referral
what's really odd about this and I spoke
about this on the Senate floor
yesterday. This is the first time that I
can find where a prosecutor moves
forward with an investigation without a
referral from the chair or a member of
the committee. Maybe somebody can prove
me wrong. But if that prosecutor has
compelling information, either the way
they read that two minutes or something
else that no one's aware of, let me see
it.
>> Senator, before you go, time for one
final question. You're in Munich. Let's
finish where we started. Chancellor
Merge just spoke moments ago and said
the transatlantic partnership is no
longer self-evident. Senator, how
received, how well received was your
delegation in Munich?
Well, you know, we're going to have I
think we're going to have a lively
discussion here. I had someone ask me
about um uh JD Bans's Vice President
Bans speech last year. I said that I
wouldn't have given that speech, but I
would not have missed the opportunity to
let my family of nations in NATO know
that one of the reasons we're here is
because of the $2 trillion deficit over
20 years. Jonathan, can you imagine how
much more ready we could be if all the
demand signals that would have come from
$2 trillion in weapons and our our
mutual defense had actually been
purchased by the comp the countries of
NATO who have failed to even meet their
minimum requirement. So I think there's
frustration there that we need to get
past. But I am speaking well I believe
for the majority of Congress who knows
that the NATO alliance is the most
profound and impactful alliance in the
history of mankind and we stand behind
it and we will as we go through this
discussion to get things back to normal.
>> Senator, appreciate your time. I know
it's loud over there. Enjoy Europe.
Thank you very much, sir. Senator Tom
Tillis there on the Federal Reserve on
China and relationship with the
Europeans. Just ahead of CPI data, if
you're just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equities at the moment into
that data just a little bit softer.
Negative by 210 of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ down by a third. New problem for
tech stocks this time is Chinese tech
stocks. That headline in Alibaba 15
minutes ago.
>> Yeah. Coming out and saying that the US
is looking at Alibaba as cooperating
with the Chinese military and Senator
Tillis right there was saying of course
they are. I mean how can you really
extricate these? But designation like
that has serious market implications and
that's the reason why those shares are
so much lower. That stock is down by
about 4% with the CPI data month over
month, year-over-year, and including
core. Let's cross over to Mike McKe for
more. Good morning, Mike. Good morning,
John. The numbers just starting to drop
here, and they are a little bit better
than what economists expected. A 210
rise in the CPI headline, which puts us
at 2.4% down from 2.7% on an annual
basis. The 2.7%
uh was for December. Remember, uh,
there's some things you got to think
about with these numbers because of the
fact that we didn't have any October
numbers, and that biases all of this.
Core CPI comes in up 3/10. That's more
than the uh Jan than the December 210,
but it's what the uh market had forecast
on a year-over-year basis. We're up
2.5%. That's down a tenth from 2.6% in
December. So, a little bit better news
there overall for uh the markets, but uh
still when you look at the core numbers,
uh you're not getting a whole lot of of
progress. We're looking here at the uh
food uh price numbers, they were up uh
in December by 7/10. So, uh we have to
see uh here we get the the updated
numbers for January. Uh food prices uh
just rose by 2/10 during the month. food
at home by 210. Big drops down from what
we saw in December. Gasoline prices were
down 3.2%.
That's a big weight on uh all of these
numbers. And uh used cars down 1.8%, new
cars up just onetenth of a percent. And
uh apparel prices up 3/10en of a
percent, same as the month before. So a
lot of the big contributors to CPI
coming in softer than anticipated. And
you can see why we see the headline
number come in a little softer than
economists had expected.
>> Mike McKe will take that. Thanks for the
update. Appreciate it. Stay close.
Downside surprise then small one on
headline CPI 0.2% month overmonth. The
survey was 0.3. Our survey here at
Bloomberg. The median estimate for core
was 0.3 inline at 0.3. I guess that's
good news. Push it through the bond
market. Yields drop at the front end of
the curve. We open this week at 350. We
pushed higher off the back of hotter
than expected payrolls. And then this
morning, we're down again by four basis
points. 341 at the front end of the
curve. Further out along the curve, tens
with a break of 410. Yields down by two
basis points on the session now at 4.07.
And basically at the lows for the year,
Lisa, on a 10-year maturity following
that soft thanex expected CPI print.
>> Okay. A tenth of a percent on this CPI
print allowed a rally in the bond market
that has taken two-year yields down by
about 10 basis points in one week after
getting ex after getting a jobless num a
jobs number that was significantly
higher than the expectation of 130,000
jobs created uh in the prior month. You
put this together and you understand the
confusion that people have. Somehow
people are saying that this inflation
rate, given the fact that apparel prices
didn't increase that much, that the uh
used car market was a little sluggish,
gives the Fed the green light to go
ahead and cut rates by two or three
times in 2026.
>> It keeps the Fed put alive. I won't talk
about the scale of the move because it's
fading as I look at it right now. And as
we often say following the data, the
first move isn't always the right move
and that might hold here too. But with
regards to the move that we are seeing
directionally keeps the Fed put alive
that if you do get the material weakness
in the economy, you're not going to get
the push back on the committee as Kevin
Walsh takes over if you keep getting
prints like that one.
>> Yeah. Right now you're seeing two-year
yields at the lowest levels going back
to September of 2022 and dropping. So
even if you do get something of a a a
knee-jerk reaction that does fade, there
still is a feeling that the door is
open. And I could say that politically
the door is certainly open, but the
numbers that we saw in terms of the
labor market also seem to justify it,
especially adding to some of the
concerns that we see in the AI trade. So
interesting to see how big this move is,
how biased people are to look to that
Fed for some sort of response.
>> Just heard from Senator Tom Tillis and
the door is closed for the hearing for
Kevin Walsh. Still got to talk about
that, you know, the timing. It's a
matter of if, right? It's a matter of
when rather and not if because
ultimately Kevin Walsh is going to
become the next Fed chair. You heard
Senator Tom Tillis. He's going to vote
for him. He likes the guy, but it's a
matter of when still. And it's going to
take some time. It's going to take some
time.
>> It's fascinating to see Scott Besson on
uh on the American airwaves earlier this
morning as you say uh talking about how
they're getting close and then to hear
tenant Tom Telis saying absolutely not
closing the door on that.
>> What's giving them that impression that
they're going to get the hearing?
>> I think that the hearing will proceed.
>> Hopes and dreams. I mean, how much is
there actually motion on the other side
to potentially resolve this legal issue?
>> Tiffany Walliger Pimco joins us now not
to talk about that, but to talk about
the data. Tiffany, welcome to the
program. How much weight can we put on
this week's data? Hotter than expected
payrolls, softer than expected CPI.
>> Well, I I think this morning's inflation
print, even though it was in line with
the Bloomberg consensus expectations,
was actually pretty encouraging under
the surface. You know, I think there's
two things that that we would highlight
in that regard. you know, one is just
that shelter inflation, which had been
stubbornly um you know, just persistent
since the the pandemic, you know, it's
finally really decelerating. Um and we
saw that in today's report. You know,
rental dynamics um for uh for new tenant
rents actually suggest that that that
you're seeing a pretty stagnant rental
market and that will ultimately feed
into OEER with the lag. So, that's good
news for the Fed. I think the other good
news in this report um you know is is
that the tariff related effects um are
are largely fading. Um you know so we
probably did get a little bit of a a
bounce back in core goods prices, retail
goods prices from the discounting that
happened over the holiday season. Um you
know but ultimately looks like tariff
effects have have kind of they're behind
us at this point. Um they were passed
through to the extent that companies
were going to do it. So, as that fades,
um, you know, you you should have a a
Federal Reserve that that feels more
comfortable, um, you know, cutting
interest rates. You know, it does look
like they are a little bit restrictive,
um, relative to the median long-term
estimate of the long run neutral
interest rate. Um, you know, so getting
a couple more cuts in this year seems
very reasonable to us.
>> Tiffany, not all rate cuts are created
equally. Do you see then a Federal
Reserve that's cutting interest rates
because inflation gives them the space
or because the labor market gives them a
reason?
Um you know so I I think so for us the
outlook for uh you know for the labor
market is is pretty stable here. Um you
know ultimately we think growth is is
going to be okay this year. You know
we're looking for 2%. You know that
should support the labor market but
nevertheless you do have this AI related
adjustment that's happening um you know
under the surface. So you know those
those factors are are sort of
offsetting. We're looking for the
unemployment rate to kind of stay where
it is. Um and then outside of that,
we're looking for inflation to moderate
u you know moderate back to target this
year. So that in our view would be
consistent with the Fed that that's
easing somewhat. Um you know, of course,
if the unemployment rate were to um to
to rise much more, you know, then that
that would um that would warrant more
easing from the Fed.
>> Tiffany, do you think that this actually
opens the door to three rate cuts this
year as the market seems to be implying
right now?
>> Um yeah, I mean, we'll we'll we'll
definitely have to see. Um, I mean, it's
certainly possible that they could get
in three. Um, you know, again, I think
as as kind of a rough estimate, uh,
we're looking at the the mid the
midpoint of the long run neutral
estimate, which is which is right around
3%. Um, you know, they're at three and a
half now. So, that implies two more
cuts. Um, you know, I think getting
another one in would um, you know, be
the result of of more disinflationary
pressure, potentially target below
target inflation, um, or the
unemployment rate moving up. I
understand the idea of celebrating
disinflation. We're still at 2.4%
year-over-year for CPI and people are
saying this is winning. I mean, how
strong is the disinflationary force
coming from the housing sector? That
gives you confidence that we're actually
going to get down to 2% even with Fed
rate cuts given that we've been above 2%
for 5 years.
>> Yeah. Um well so I mean the housing
sector has certainly been one of the
reasons why and uh that we've had
stickier inflation. So the housing um
OEER um and rents rental inflation have
been incredibly sticky. Um you know you
know that's of in part because of um it
just takes them longer to adjust. Um you
know so they uh didn't accelerate as
much as as home prices did during the
pandemic but but now they're
decelerating at a slower pace. That's
finally over. um it looks like that
catchup has happened in the rental
market. Um you know and you can and
you're now seeing more more stagnant
rental trends. So that is important you
know but again the other thing is is
that the thing that's held up overall
inflation over the last year is some
pass through of the additional costs
that companies have to pay as a result
of tariffs. But that's a one-time price
level adjustment. Um and when we look at
core goods price behavior, you know, it
looks like that adjustment's largely
happened. So now that it's happened, you
should see core goods uh you know price
inflation also starting to decelerate.
So again, all that is is good news for
the Fed.
>> Tiffany, just one final comment if we
can on the committee that Kevin Walsh
will ultimately at some point this year
be taken over. How contentious will
things be? How divided is that committee
currently?
Well, I mean, you know, again, I think
you I think you want to look at um where
everybody is est, you know, where
everybody's sort of writing down um
where they think the long run neutral
interest rate is. Um because because
that's going to be the debate this year,
we think um you know, and of course that
the AI um you know, and and the the
technology related to fusion will have
will have implications for that RSTAR
debate. Um but but there there's a a
good majority of the committee that
still thinks that the current policy
rate is above their estimate of RSTAR
which means policy is slightly
restrictive you know and if you have
employment that is consistent with
maximum levels and you have inflation
that's running at target you should be
at neutral policy and so again the the
real debate this year um on the Fed is
is where neutral policy is going to be
you know and again we're kind of looking
at the midpoint of their estimated range
of of 3%.
>> Tiffany appreciate you jumping on. Thank
you. Tiffany Welding in there of PIMCO.
If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. CPI out 10 minutes ago.
Downside surprise 0.2% the estimate 0.3.
That's headline on core. Core CPI coming
in at 0.3. The estimate 0.3 unlocking
some gains off the lows in the equity
market on the S&P. A bit of
outperformance down the Russell or small
caps higher by a third of 1% with the
repricing at the front end of the curve.
Yields coming in just a touch. They were
down four or five basis points at the
very front end of the curve. Lisa, we're
now down two to 343.
>> Yeah. Although you are seeing a 50%
chance currently getting priced into the
market in terms of Fed funds futures of
a Fed rate cut, a third Fed rate cut for
this year. But I like how you pointed
out that core did not change. It was
bang online. And if you're looking at
where the disinflation is coming from,
yes, it's coming from retail and yes,
it's coming from potentially uh used
cars, but it's also coming from
gasoline. And that is one of the
volatile factors that could turn around
because of some of the oil price gains
that we've seen of late
>> in this market. In line is good news
>> evidently.
>> But let's just go with in line and you
know good news.
>> We've been too negative. I think this is
great. I'm embracing the disinflation
and so too is the market.
>> You're just getting close to the weekend
20 minutes away. You know what this is
about. Mike McKe still with us. He's
standing closely by standing by. Mike,
you're looking for the details. What
jumps out for you? Is this a good print?
>> Uh I wouldn't go so far as to say uh I
would trade on a more Fed rate cuts
because of this. There are some signs in
here that are a little concerning. Goods
prices were flat and a lot of that has
to do with, as Lisa said, used cars and
gasoline. Services prices were up 4/10.
And then underneath the hood, you see
tariff effects. You do see them. Uh air
uh we see uh uh household furnishings up
7/10. Appliances and law laundry
materials uh washing machines up 1.3%.
Video and audio equipment up 2.2%.
Computers and software up 3.1% and these
are month- over-month gains. So, we are
seeing companies start to roll out price
increases on things that have been
tariffed. Now, the question is, is this
a one-time thing, which is what Chris
Waller has been arguing, or is it uh as
others in the Fed have been concerned
about something that's going to keep
prices going up for a little bit? When
you look at Super Core, take out housing
and Tiffany mentioned how housing had
gone down. It's still up 610 of a
percent on the month. So we are seeing
uh prices rise for things and remember
this is CPI. There was no October CPI.
The labor department put that down as a
zero for the month. So CPI is biased
lower. Next week we get PCE for
December. And according to the Bloomberg
survey that's going to go up to 3%. And
a 3% handle is not something uh on PCE,
which is the Fed's target, that the Fed
is going to want to build a case for
cutting rates on.
>> Yeah, the hawks at the Fed aren't going
to like that. Mike, thank you, sir. Mike
McKe can't get away from the gloom. You
tried and Mike just brings you back in.
>> I'm just depressed now. Don't know how.
And he's he's got some good points
there, particularly about gasoline
because gasoline's inflected upward,
seeing tariff pressures. Nonetheless,
that housing component. Do we really
believe that? Are we measuring it
correctly? So, that's where I'm going to
get my optimism. Rents have been
stabilizing.
>> You're not alone. That's where a lot of
push back comes with regards to the
official data. Equities still just about
positive, up by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P. Outperformance on a small caps, the
Russell up by 0.4. In this market,
anything could change in the next 5
minutes or so. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning. Here
is your Bloomberg brief. Recapping the
data. Inflation coming in colder [music]
than expected, rising 2/10en of a
percent compared to estimates of 0.3.
Core inflation coming in line with
estimates elsewhere. Alibaba shares
falling in the pre-market. Reuters is
reporting [music] the Trump
administration expects to add the
company to a list of firms helping
China's military. According to the
report, the list [music] doesn't impose
sanctions. It signals White House
concerns about the company. And finally,
[music] Rivian shares soaring in the
pre-market. The EV maker surprising
investors with strong fourth quarter
results and its [music] first ever
annual gross profit after years of
consistent losses. Their stock is higher
by 26%. And that is your Bloomberg
[music] brief. Up next on the program,
Jim Karen and Morgan Stanley. With
inflation coming in cooler than
expected, plus Danny has your morning
mover as Wendy's shares falling as the
company struggles [music] to keep value
focused customers. That stock is down by
more than 4%.
[music]
If we're reasonably comfortable that
core inflation is running down more at 2
[music] 1/2%. I think that's a pretty
comfortable place to be reducing policy
rates. The numbers are imprecise and
there are issues in terms of just
measuring inflation. So if you're at 2
and a half% you're basically at your
[music] target. We should be seeing that
kind of uppward pressure on goods
inflation fading. But that's a key
question.
>> That was Andrew Honhorse of City
weighing in on the inflation story.
Inflation coming in a little bit softer
than expected this morning. Only moments
ago, [music] unlocking some gains and a
move off the lows on the equity market.
On the S&P 500 this morning, just about
unchanged on the NASDAQ slightly
negative. We have gone three days on
[music] the S&P 500 without gains. Can
we avoid going day four? Day four into a
long weekend state [music] side. Let's
get you some morning movers, some single
names. With more is Danny Ber. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Not all fast food is created
equal. Earlier this week, we learned
that McDonald's had strong earnings. It
is not the same for Wendy's. [music]
They disappointed not only on their
fourth quarter, but their outlook, too.
They also said they're going to be
closing something like 5 to 6% of
stores. We know McDonald's cut prices
drastically [music] to bring people into
a value offering. Perhaps Wendy's has
some catching up to do. Shares down 4%.
[music] The flip side of this trade is
the grocery trade and that seems to be
going well. Although maybe not going
into store, maybe everyone's lazy like
me and orders them. Instacart shares up
13%.
Uh they beat across the board. The CEO
saying that [music] their retention of
customers in 2025 was akin to their peak
in 2023. So those shares again up 13.4%.
Finally, some breaking news in the past
[music] few minutes. The Pentagon
confirming that they have indeed added
Alibaba to a list of Chinese companies
allegedly helping the Chinese military.
Now, there aren't necessarily sanctions
that automatically come with it, but
[music] it puts them on a watch list.
Shares the ADRs of which falling 4.2%
this morning, John.
>> Hey Danny, thank you. Looking forward to
the program in about 10 minutes time.
Not just Alibaba. This from the
Pentagon. Headline [music] just crossing
the Bloomberg terminal. BU BYD Alibaba
aiding the Chinese military. [music]
BYD is an interesting one. And that'll
be an interesting conversation with the
Canadians later on this year, won't it?
>> Especially given how they have been
increasingly leaning into that. And one
of the concessions potentially to renew
USMCA has to do with potentially
increasing pressure on Chinese goods by
Canada. Also interesting over in the
Munich Security Conference. I'm curious
to see what Europe says about some of
these measures.
>> Let's bring in Jim Karen of Morgan
Stanley. Jim joins us following
inflation coming in cooler than expected
just moments ago. Jim, welcome to the
program. Is that enough to stabilize
this market or is it going to be
difficult to put a lid on this
volatility?
>> Okay, so I don't know if the inflation
number necessarily does it. It is a good
sign that we're having higher
productivity and it's part of the bigger
picture story of better productivity,
better growth. Inflation's not rising.
The larger picture is still a positive
picture for the markets. We're having
decent growth. But Jonathan, there there
there are two words that we have to
focus on right now. Contagion and
dispersion. We are going through a
repricing of a segment of the markets
which is a software sector. And there's
worried that there's worried that this
might create an event that is contagion
for the rest of the markets and that
creates you know some type of a bigger
move down. The other question that we
have to answer is is there dispersion?
Can you diversify these risks away? So
far, what we're seeing is that a lot of
the risk is concentrated in one segment
of of the market, right, which is a
software sector. It's a question about
leverage, and that's primarily in the
private markets, primarily in the
private credit space, but you're not
seeing it in the publicly traded um uh
fixed income markets, right? High yield.
Software is only about 3% of the high
yield market. Has a relatively high
quality at this point because a lot of
those bigger risks were dispersed and
diversified into the private markets. So
the ability for this to create contagion
and become a bigger financial event, I
think is relatively low. It doesn't mean
that people aren't worried about debt
refinancing for the software sector and
what that might mean for equities and
and things like that, but I don't see
this as a liquidity event like your
typical uh you know market moving big
substantial market moving event. I see
this as a repricing in a segment of the
marketplace that people are trying to
get a handle on and trying to see if
they can diversify the risks.
>> In the meantime, Jim, they're hiding in
the same places. They're going to places
like Staples and sitting in Walmart
going into earnings next week. What's
your advice for the people piling into
that trade?
>> Well, look, I mean, you know, one of our
calls for this year was was a cyclical
broadening of the markets. So, you know,
for the past couple of years, we've been
talking about the MAG 7 and people
forgot about the other 493. So, the way
that we see it is whether it's
materials, whether it's industrials, or
it's even some of the financials. Some
of the financials right now are actually
looking um you know, pretty interesting
just given the recent uh downdraft. And
I I think it's a good buying
opportunity. Um, you know, my advice is
that there's a lot of creative
destruction that's taking place in
markets today. And AI is is chiefly
responsible for that. But it also means
that there's a lot of companies in the
traditional more traditional value
sectors of the markets that are going to
be the AI beneficiaries. We can't forget
about that. And these are the companies
if they employ technology well are going
to create the economic value. And we're
going to see and we're going to see
higher gains out of industrials. I mean,
you know, look at stocks like
Caterpillar, for example, right? You
know, very very strong, very old school
traditional uh company. You know, the
these are the areas that as as a as a
portfolio manager, as an investor, it's
a very it's a very diverse market where
we can create a lot of diversification.
This is a great opportunity to think
about being a stock picker and a bond
picker as opposed to just a passive
investor. Jim, you said uh something
very interesting there as they employ
technology and they're employing
technology, not necessarily humans,
which is a reason why people are very
concerned about the labor market right
now. And I wonder, as you say, it will
all come out in the wash, which is very
wonderful. Um that you think that
ultimately some of this broadening out
is predicated on a series of rate cuts.
Is that true?
Um, I don't know if it's necessarily
predicated on the rate cuts, but the
broadening out, what we have to
recognize here, it's a broadening out of
the labor force, too. So, what we've
seen really since 2001, so if we go back
a few decades, um, is that the capital
share of GDP had done really, really
well, where the labor share of GDP had
done very poorly. Now what we're seeing
with a rebirth of maybe some of the
manufacturing, some of the cyclical
broadening that we're seeing is that
more of the labor share of GDP is is
doing better. So yes, there might be
some unemployment in some of the white
collar technology jobs, but try to find
an electrician, try to find a plumber,
try to find a carpenter, try to find a
welder, right? You know, these are the
segments of the economy that is really
just not spoken about enough, you know,
that are actually really, really strong.
the demand for labor in th those spaces
and those are higher paying jobs. Those
are trades. Those aren't service sector
jobs, right? Those aren't like, you
know, very low-end service sector jobs.
These are very high-skilled labor jobs
that are coming back. That's the other
part of the economy that I don't think
that Wall Street spends enough time
talking about.
>> Hey Jim, I hate to end the conversation
there, but we're actually out of time
and we will find time to talk about that
next time you're on. Jim, thank you. Jim
Karen of Morgan Stanley there. Jim
pushing back against the prospect of
financial contagion, contagion risk.
Some push back from Jim.
>> Yeah, he's going back to the Steve
point. It looks good. It sounds good. It
is good. And that seems to be what a lot
of the bulls are right now. I'm just
looking to see how do I become a
plumber. It's a four to five year
apprenticeship. So, it's actually it's a
lot of work and you have to have good
physical stamina and you have to have a
good sense of where things are uh in
terms of mechanics, which is might be a
problem.
>> Did you have a good week? Do you enjoy
this?
>> You know, it's actually fascinating.
This is a fascinating moment. I did.
>> It's a fascinating moment. Enjoy the
long weekend. You've all learned it
[music] from New York City this morning.
Good morning. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.